

 4  –  19.  Elimination of a probationary officer  
a.  The rules for a nonprobationary officer (see para 4  –  18) also apply to a probationary officer, except as noted in 
paragraph  4–19c. 
b.  A probationary officer is — 
(1)  Any commissioned officer on  the ADL with less than 6 years active commissioned service or a commissioned 
Reserve officer with less than 6 years commissioned service (see 10 USC 630).  
(2)  Warrant officers who have less than 3 years’ service since original appointment in their presen t component (see 
10 USC 1165).  
c.  If at any time during the processing of the recommendation (before a final decision in the case) the officer no 
longer meets the probationary criteria stated in paragraph  4–19b, the case wi ll be processed under paragraph  4  –  18. 
d.  An officer identified for elimination may — 
(1)  Tender a resignation in lieu of elimination.  
(2)  Apply for retirement in lieu of elimination if otherwise eligible. (Format for volu ntary retirement will be 
amended to specifically state that the application is submitted in lieu of elimination.)  
e.  Processing an officer’s recommendation for elimination under this paragraph does not require referral to a Board 
of Inquiry unless the off icer declines to elect one of the options in paragraph  4–19d and an other than honorable 
discharge is recommended.  
f.  If the officer declines to elect one of the options listed in paragraph  4–19d, and if an honorable or general dis-
charge (under honorable conditions) is recommended, CG, HRC, will forward the case to the DASA (RB) for final 
decision. The GOSCA will make a formal recommendation concerning the options submitted by the officer.  
g.  If the officer declines to elect one of the options listed in paragraph  4–19d, and if an other than honorable dis-
charge is recommended, the case will be processed as if the officer was a nonprobationary officer.  
h.  CG, HRC, will forward the case to the DASA (RB).  
i.  The DASA (RB) may direct:  
(1)  Retention.  
(2)  Discharge.  
(3)  Referral to a Board of Inquiry.  
j.  Action by the DASA (RB) acting for SECARMY, is final.  
k.  When the DASA (RB) directs the officer’s retention, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will close the case and notify the 
officer through the GOSCA.  
l.  When the DASA (RB) as appropriate, approves the elimination, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will forward separation 
instructions to the appropriate MPD.  
m.  When the DA SA (RB) refers the case to a Board of Inquiry, procedures in table  4  –  1, steps 10 through 18 will 
be followed.  
n.  The required steps for processing the elimination of a probationary officer are shown in table  4  –  2. 
 
Table 4  –  2 
Processing elimination of a probationary officer  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official (see para 4 -18a(1) through 4 -18a(4)) notifies the officer in writing that elimination ac-
tion has been initiated and that he or she is required to show cause for retention on AD (see fig 4  –  3). Initi-
ates a DA Form 268 (see AR 600  –  8  –  2). 
2 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official advises the officer of the reasons supporting the elimination action and the factual 
allegations supporting the reasons. Only applicable reasons as outlined in paragraph 4  –  2 that can be sup-
ported by specific factual allegations and evidence may be the basis for eliminations . Evidence to support 
the elimination must be able to stand on its own merits. Prior coordination with a servicing judge advocate 
or legal advisor is required for actions initiated by the GOSCA. Advises the officer that he or she may — 
a. Tender resignation in lieu of elimination (see para 4  –  20). 
b. Apply for retirement in lieu of elimination if otherwise eligible for voluntary retirement as shown in table 