
6  –  9.  Home categories  
The FCC system will be composed of three categories of homes: multi –age homes, age  specific homes, and special purpose 
homes. In addition, an FCC provider may obtain endorsements for the provision of specialized services. Installations have the authority to limit the number and type of homes based on local needs and the availability of management and support 
personnel.  
a.  Home categories.   The following three categories of homes may be established:  
(1)  Multi– age FCC homes.   These homes may provide full –day, part –day, and hourly care for children 4 weeks –12 
years.  
(2)  Age specific homes.   These homes may be established to serve families with a preference or requirements for such 
care in response to the lack of services for a portion of the child population.  
(a)  Infant/toddler homes.   Homes providing care only for infants and toddlers f rom ages 4 weeks through 2 years.  
(b)  School –age homes.   Homes providing care only for school –age children ages 5
 –  12 years.   

 (3)  Special purpose homes.   These homes will limit care to children with the unique care requirements for which the 
FCC home is established. Special purpose home types may include but are not limited to the following:  
(a)  Special needs homes.   Care for children with unique requirements (e.g., handicapping conditions when a home is 
determined to be the least restrictive environment  by the Special Needs Resource Team).  
(b)  Newborn/infant homes.   Care for newborn and young infants birth –12 months. Care for infants birth through 4 
weeks is restricted to children of sole/dual military parent(s) when the soldier is required to return to  duty before the child 
is old enough to be eligible for other child care options. Homes will be monitored at least bi– monthly by FCC personnel 
and as requested by preventive medicine staff. Approval of homes must be coordinated locally on a case by case basis.  
(c)  HIV homes.   Care for children ages 4 weeks –6 years and children ages 6  –  12 years who lack control of their body 
secretions (whether because of age or physical/mental handicap) regardless of their stage of infection with the HIV.  
(d)  Bilingual/b icultural homes.   Care for children where parents have a preference for a particular language or cultural 
focus. Providers will meet the requirements in paragraph  6  –  14. 
(e)  Sick child homes.   Care for children who are too ill to remain in their usual center –based or FCC setting or who are 
recuperating from hospitalization, but are not seriously ill or require professional nursing care. Care may also be provided 
to chronically ill children who do not require hospitalization,  but can not, (for their safety or the safety of others) be enrolled 
in other CDS settings. Care for children who are acutely ill (i.e., high fevers, contagious disease such as HIB, chicken pox,  
and other vaccine preventable diseases or in need of total bed rest) is not authorized without special permission from the 
health consultant.  
b.  Special endorsements.  
(1)  FCC providers may obtain special endorsements to provide extended hours care, long term care, respite/ emergency 
care, care for mildly ill child ren who remain in the FCC home throughout the course of the illness, or care for mainstreamed 
special needs children. Special endorsements will not be given until an FCC provider is fully certified. Exceptions to this policy will be approved by the CDS coordinator on a case– by–case basis. When such care is needed, special endorsements 
will be given in the following areas. (See para 6–21d and e for training requirements.)  
(a)  Extended hours care, evening or weekend care.   Care for children of parents who require routine evening child care, 
work unusual or long hours, and have mission –related child care needs that require child care services over 12 hours a day, 
but not to exceed 14 consecutive days. Enrollment of children i n FCC homes providing extended hours care will be con-
sidered child care rather than foster care placement.  
(b)  Mildly ill care.   Care for children who remain in their usual FCC home setting throughout the course of a mild 
illness.  
(c)  Long term care.   Care for children which encompasses more than 15 consecutive days, but does not exceed 60 days. 
Enrollment of children in FCC homes providing long term care will be considered child care rather than foster care place-
ment. Provision of care in excess of 60 da ys must be approved by the CDS coordinator on a case by case basis and coor-
dinated with health and legal proponents.  
(d)  Respite/emergency care.   Short term hourly care for respite or emergency situations as determined by the FCC 
director.  
(e)  Mainstream ed special needs care.   Care for children with handicapping conditions who do not require placement in 
a special needs home, but do have some unique care needs that can be accommodated  within the usual FCC home setting.  
(f)  Hourly Care.   Care for children  on a drop –in or part –time basis to help meet the installation needs for special events, 
surge care, care for children of volunteers, medical appointments and recreation activities. The installation may contract 
with FCC providers these services on a conti nuing basis where need exists.  
(g)  Endorsements.   Additional endorsements may be established where local need dictates, but must be approved in 
writing by MACOM and USACFSC (CFSC
 –  SF  –  CY) prior to implementation. Special endorsements may not be given 
for religious or educational purposes.  
(2)  Special endorsements will be annotated on the FCC provider’s certification document and will be given only after 
the FCC provider has received FCC approved training in the specific endorsement subject matter area ( para 6–21d). 
(3)  Special endorsement in an FCC setting will exclude children requiring placement due to child abuse or neglect 
except when care is of a respite nature as part of the overall treatment plan for parents. Abused/neglected children will be 
placed and monitored in foster homes certified by either civilian protective services or Family Advocacy Program (FAP). 
An FCC provider may also be a foster parent, but an additional foster care certification will be requi red. The claims pro-
gram does not extend to children placed as part of the foster parent program.  