
3  –  5.  Unqualified resignation  
a.  Any officer on AD (for more than 90 calendar days) may tender a resignation under this paragraph except when 
action is pending that could result in RFGOS; officer is under a suspension of favorable actions, pending investigation, 
under charges; or any other unfavorable or derogatory action is pending.   

 b.  Normally, resignations will not be accepted unless on the requested date of separation the officer has fulfilled 
the service obligation as follows:  
(1)  Graduates of fully funded commissioning programs must complete the ADSO incurred by participation in such 
programs. However, this obligation may be waived if the monies are recouped.  
(2)  An officer must serve in the Armed Forces until completion of statutory MSO. REFRAD under provisions of 
chapter  2 of this regulation does not terminate the MSO. An officer has an 8 -year MSO. To waive an officer’s MSO, 
the ASA (M&RA) must find that the officer has no potential for service under conditions of full mobilization. Time 
spent as a  cadet at the USMA or as an ROTC cadet does not count towards fulfilling the MSO. An officer who requests 
resignation before completing the 8 -year MSO must agree to accept an indefinite appointment in the USAR to com-
plete such service obligation. An RA com missioned officer (excluding a commissioned warrant officer) with an un-
fulfilled MSO will be appointed as a USAR commissioned officer concurrent with REFRAD and is not required to 
execute a DA Form 71 (Oath of Office— Military Personnel) to accept the appoi ntment.  
(3)  Service academy graduates and ROTC DMGs who are released/separated from AD before completing their 
ADSO will complete the remaining portion of their ADSO in the Selected Reserve. This requirement may only be 
waived by the ASA (M&RA) or delegate. The DCS, G  –  1 or their delegate will determine if unit positions are available 
for these officers.  
(4)  An officer who has received a PCS must complete the ADSO incurred by the reassignment (see AR 614  –  30). 
(5)  An officer who has attended or is attending a service school, civilian educational institution, or special training 
for which a utilization tour is required will complete any period of service specified by AR 350  –  100 and appropriate 
regulations.  
(6)  An officer on orders for assignment to a military mission, a military assistance advisory group, or attaché office 
must complete training and the overseas tour of duty prescribed by AR 614  –  30. 
(7)  An officer on orders to a course of instruction, an OCONUS station, or any other assignmen t that will incur an 
ADSO will comply with such orders unless an exception is granted by HRC. Exceptions will be considered on an 
individual basis, provided the resignation is submitted within 30 calendar days of receipt of the alert or reassignment 
order,  whichever is earlier.  
c.  An RA commissioned officer (excluding a commissioned warrant officer) who has completed the 8 -year MSO 
may request appointment as a USAR commissioned officer concurrent with REFRAD. If approved, the officer is not 
required to execute a DA Form 71 to accept the appointment.  
d.  The first colonel in the officer’s chain of command or supervision will counsel the officer (except for chaplains, 
judge advocates, and AMEDD personnel) with less than 10 years AFCS when he or she submits an  unqualified resig-
nation. The counseling will be as stated in paragraph  1–14b. 
e.  Judge advocates, chaplains, and AMEDD officers will be counseled by a senior officer of their branch in their 
chain of technical supervision or as specifically designated by their branch. This counseling will be as stated in para-
graph 1–14b. 
f.  HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will issue separation instructions on approved requests to the appropriate MPD.  
g.  If disapproved, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A); TJAG (DAJA  –  PT); or OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as applicable, will notify 
the officer through the officer’s chain of command.  
h.  An officer who submits an unqualified resignation accepted by HRC will receive an honorable discharge or a 
general discharge under honorable conditions. A DD Form 256 (based on the officer’s record of service) will be 
provided.  
i.  The steps required for processing unqualified resignation are shown in table  3  –  1. 
 
Table 3  –  1 
Processing unqualified resignation  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Submits request for unqualified resignation to their commander (see fig 3  –  1). 
2 SACT BN  –  1 a. Reviews and forwards the officer’s request for resignation at least 90 calendar days prior to the re-
quested separation date for officers with no MSO, and 180 days prior for officers with a remaining MSO or 
who request appointment as a reserve officer concurrent with their REFRAD, through channels to HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as applicable. As an exception, an officer 
who has a service obligation beyond 6 months may submit the request, as an exception to policy, more 
than 6 months in advance of the requested effective date.  
b. The fi rst forwarding endorsement will state — 
(1) The officer’s reason for submitting the resignation.   

 Table 3  –  1 
Processing unqualified resignation  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
(2) A brief synopsis of the counseling session.  
(3) Whether the officer is currently undergoing a course of instruction that upon completion or termination 
will result in an ADSO. Specify course title, beginning and closing dates, and service obligations incurred.  
(4) Recommendation for approval or disapproval and type of discharge to be furnished. Include complete 
justification when approval is recommended and t he officer has not fulfilled a service requirement. Also, 
include justification for disapproval.  
(5) Statement that the officer is not under investigation or charges, awaiting result of trial, being considered 
for administrative elimination, AWOL, under the control of civil authorities, or insane.  
(6) Statement that necessary action has been or will be taken to adjust and close any public property or 
financial accounts of the officer concerned.  
(7) Report of any recent misconduct of the officer concerned which had not previously been reported to 
HRC. Any misconduct committed or discovered subsequent to endorsement will be reported to HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) in an expeditious manner.  
(8) If the officer is serving OCONUS, indicate whether he or she is accompanied by dependents and the 
date the officer will complete the normal OCONUS tour.  
(9) If the officer is serving OCONUS and requests separation OCONUS, include a recommendation con-
cerning such request. If disapproval is recommended, include justification. If approval is recommended, 
include a positive statement that the foreign country concerned specifically consents to the officer’s sepa-
ration in that country.  
(10) Statement that the officer is physically qualified for separation or that the officer will be scheduled for 
medical examination according to the regulation.  
(11) Whether an RA officer desires an appointment in the USAR (not on AD). If USAR is requested, in-
clude recommendation for approval or disapproval. Include justification when disapproval is re com-
mended.  
3 SACT (TC)  Upon receipt of separation instructions, process officer for separation. Final orders and forms will cite reg-
ulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 