
4  –  22.  Caregiving competencies  
Caregiving employees and FCC providers working with children must demonstrate on the job competencies compatible with the CDA philoso phy and will — 
a.  Provide a safe environment to prevent and reduce injuries.  
b.  Promote good health and nutrition and provide an environment that contributes to the prevention of illness.  
c.  Use space, relationships, materials, and routines as resources for constructing an interesting, secure, and enjoyable 
environment that encourages play, exploration, and learning.  
d.  Provide a variety of equipment, activities, and opportunities to promote the physical development of children.  
e.  Provide activities an d opportunities that encourage curiosity, exploration, and problem solving appropriate to the 
developmental levels and learning styles of children.  
f.  Actively communicate with children and provide opportunities and support for children to understand, acquire, and 
use verbal and nonverbal means of communicating thoughts and feelings.  
g.  Provide opportunities for children to explore sound, rhythm, language, materials, and space in individual ways and 
to express their creative abilities.  
h.  Provide emotion al security for each child and help each child to know, accept, and take pride in accomplishments 
and to develop a sense of independence.  
i.  Help each child feel accepted in the group, learn to communicate and get along with others, and encourage feelings  
of empathy and mutual respect among children and adults.  
j.  Provide a supportive environment in which children can begin to learn and practice appropriate and acceptable be-
haviors as individuals and as a group.  
k.  Establish positive productive relations hips with families.  
l.  Use all available resources to ensure an effective operation.  
m.  Make decisions based on knowledge of early childhood growth and development theories and practices, promote 
quality in child care services, and take advantage of oppo rtunities to improve competence, both for personal and profes-
sional growth and for the benefit of children and families.  