
5  –  4.  Discharge of an active duty list chaplain who loses professional qualifications due to a 
withdrawal of ecclesiastical endorsement  
a.  Chaplains are required to possess a valid DD Form 2088 (Statement of Ecclesiastical Endorsement) from an 
authorized religious organization (RO) for both initial appointment and continuation on AD. If an RO endorsing agent 
withdraws a chaplain’s ecclesiasti cal endorsement, then the officer immediately loses their chaplain status and must 
cease all religious activities such as performance of rites, ceremonies, services, pastoral counseling, and so forth.  
b.  Once notified by OCCH of a withdrawal of ecclesiast ical endorsement, a chaplain must select one of the options 
listed in step 1 of table  5  –  2. However, if the chaplain fails to return their option memorandum to the OCCH within 30 
calendar days from the date of official n otification, then OCCH will immediately begin processing him or her for 
involuntary separation from AD under this paragraph unless such separation is more appropriate for other reasons 
under chapter  4 of this regulation.  
c.  SECARMY makes the final determination.  
d.  Separations under this paragraph  5  –  4 will be honorable and a DD Form 256 will be issued.  
e.  The steps required for processing the discharge of an ADL chaplain who loses profess ional qualifications due to 
a withdrawal of ecclesiastical endorsement are shown in table  5  –  2. 
 
Table 5  –  2 
Discharge due to loss of professional qualifications due to withdrawal of ecclesiastical endorsement  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 DACH  Upon notification of a withdrawal of ecclesiastical endorsement by an RO, OCCH will notify the chaplain 
(in writing) and advise them of their — 
a. Right to counsel (military counsel or civilian counsel obtained at own expense).  
b. Choice of the following options:  
(1) Seek another ecclesiastical endorsement. A DOD listed RO must provide OCCH with a new DD Form 
2088 for the chaplain within 90 calendar days of the date of official notification. Once received by OCCH, 
the DD Form 2088 is processed and submitted to the OCCH for acceptance and approval. If the DD Form 
2088 is declined by OCCH, then the chaplain is subject to immediate involuntary separation as covered 
under this section.  
(2) Apply for branch transfer according to AR 614  –  100. The chaplain must submit a branch transfer re-
quest through their chain of command within 90 calendar days from the date of official notification. The 
chaplain is subject to immediate involuntary separation from AD if the branch transfer request is declined 
or submitted after the allotted time period.   

 Table 5  –  2 
Discharge due to loss of professional qualifications due to withdrawal of ecclesiastical endorsement  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
(3) Submit request for voluntary retirement (if eligible). The chaplain must submit their request for retire-
ment within 60 calendar days from the date of official notification. The retirement date requested cannot 
exceed the 1st day of the 5th month following the date of official notification.  
(4) Submit request for voluntary resignation. The chaplain must submit their resignation request within 30 
calendar days from the date of official notification or be subject to immediate involuntary separation under 
this section. The requested separation date must not exceed the 1st day of the 4th month following the 
date of official notification.  
c. The chaplain has a 30- calendar day submission deadline (from date of official notification) to OCCH for 
the completed option preference memorandum. OCCH will begin involuntary separation proceedings un-
der this section if he or she fails to submit the required document within the allotted time.  
d. In accordance with this regulation, involuntary separation f rom AD will occur if the chaplain is denied a 
branch transfer or cannot obtain a new DD Form 2088 from a valid RO.  
2 Soldier  Makes option selection from step 1 and submits paperwork to OCCH.  
3 DACH  Performs the function below that aligns with the chaplain’s selected option.  
a. RO submits a new DD Form 2088 to OCCH on behalf of the chaplain within 90 calendar days from the 
date of official notification. If accepted by OCCH, the OCCH (DACH  –  PEZ  –  SA) then files the new endorse-
ment in the chaplain’s career management information file and makes appropriate changes to the officer’s 
AMHRR and ORB.  
b. Process the application for branch transfer according to AR 614  –  100. 
c. When either steps 3d or 3e of this table is applicable, determine whether medical board or PEB pro-
ceedings are pending or appropriate.  
d. When a chaplain requests retirement, process the application according to chapter 6 of this regulation.  
e. When a chaplain requests resignation, process the request according to paragraph 3  –  5. 
f. Final separation orders and forms will cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 