
5  –  9.  Officer who is dropped from the Army rolls  
a.  An RA or an RC commissioned officer may be DFR of the Army when any of the following criteria in 10 USC 
1161(b) or 12684, as applicable, are met:  
(1)  The officer has been sentenced by a court -martial to a period of confinement for more than 6 months (10 USC 
1167 and 12687). Separation from service may occur at any time after the sentence to confinement has become final, 
and the  officer has served in confinement for a period of 6 months, in accordance with Chapter 47 of the UCMJ.  
(2)  Has been AWOL for at least 3 months.   

 (3)  The officer was sentenced to confinement in a federal or state penitentiary or correctional institution a fter being 
found guilty of an offense by a court, other than a military court, and whose sentence is final.  
b.  DFR requests should be made only in cases where severing all of an officer’s ties with the Army and the loss of 
retirement eligibility are warra nted, including when the officer is or should be deprived of retired pay under 5 USC 
Chapter 83.  
c.  An RA warrant officer who has not been commissioned may not be DFR under paragraph  5–9a. 
d.  The President is the approval authority for DFR requests for RA officers in a grade above O  –  3 and RC officers 
in a grade above O  –  5. The Secretary of Defense is the approval authority for DFR requests for all other RA and RC 
officers.  
e.  HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will issue separation in structions to drop the officer from the Army rolls, when approved 
by the President or Secretary of Defense, as appropriate.  
f.  HRC (AHRC  –  AR) must release USAR AGR officers from AGR status.  
g.  The steps required for processing an officer who is dropp ed from the Army rolls are shown in table  5  –  7. 
 
Table 5  –  7 
Dropped from the rolls  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 The commander, when information is received that indicates an officer warrants being DFR of the Army, 
forwards such information through channels to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). Includes — 
a. A detailed statement (including documentary evidence) why the officer may be dropped from the Army 
rolls.  
b. When appropriate, a certified copy  of the court order conviction or letter from the warden of the peniten-
tiary or correctional institution verifying the officer’s confinement.  
2 C&S a. The CG, HRC endorse a DFR package with a recommendation for approval/disapproval to the DCS, 
G  –  1 (DAPE  –  MPO  –  D) for staffing through the SECARMY to the Secretary of Defense or the President for 
final decision.  
b. If DFR is approved the CG, HRC will:  
(1) In the case of an officer on the ADL or Reserve active status list (RASL), direct the issuance of a DD  
Form 214 in accordance with AR 635  –  8 and DODI 1336.01. Block 18 will contain the entry “Dropped from 
the Rolls by the President of the United States” or “Dropped from the rolls by the Secretary of Defense,” as 
appropriate. The characterization of servic e in Block 24 will be “Uncharacterized.”  
(2) Remove the name of the officer from the ADL, RASL, as applicable.  
(3) Remove the officer from the Defense Finance and Accounting Service system and any associated pay 
databases.  
(4) Remove the officer from the D efense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System.  
3 PPAA (TC)  Upon receipt of separation instructions, takes action to separate the officer. When separation is accom-
plished, forwards officer fingerprints to the FBI as required in AR 190  –  47 and AR 635  –  8. 