
2
 –  13.  Child records  
a.  Signed copies of the information listed below will be maintained on file for each child within the CDS program 
facility or FCC home where the child is enrolled. Records will be secured, with accessibility limited only to authorized 
personnel.  
(1)  DA Form 4719  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Registration Card) will provide CDS management and 
caregiving employees and FCC providers with child and family data needed for program management, health, safety, 
enroll ment, and admission requirements. DA Form 4719  –  R includes sponsor’s consent to seek emergency health or dental 
care for the child if the parent or guardian is unavailable. DA Form 4719  –  R will be completed jointly by parents and CDS 
personnel. One form may be completed for each child or for each family. The form will be update annually. This form will 
be reproduced locally on 8 by 5 inch card stock, printed head to foot. A copy of this form for reproduction is located at the  
back of this regulation.  
(2)  DA Form 5222  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Sponsor Consent) itemizes events and conditions requiring 
parental permission for child participation in activities such as field trips, after –school activities, and authorizes use of a 
child’s photograph  for publication purposes. This form will be completed and signed by the parent or guardian before a 
child is accepted. Form will be update and Dated/initiated by the parent annually. DA Form 5222  –  R will be reproduced 
locally on 81⁄2 by 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for reproduction is located at the back of this regulation.  
(3)  DA Form 5223  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Child Health Assessment) provides CDS management per-
sonnel and FCC providers with child health information necessary to meet admission requirements. Medical staff com-
ments/physical examination will be completed only once upon admission. Form will be update and initialed/Dated by the 
parent annually. If the parent indicates a significant change in the child’s health status, a c urrent medical examination will 
be required. DA Form 5233  –  R will be reproduced locally on 81⁄2 by 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for reproduction 
is located at the back of this regulation.  
(4)  DA Form 5224  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Child and Family Profile) provides information that enables 
CDS personnel and FCC providers to develop programs that meet the developmental and program needs of the child and 
family. DA Form 5224  –  R will be completed by the parent or guardian and update annuall y. DA Form 5224  –  R will be 
reproduced locally on 81⁄2 by 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for local reproduction is located at the back of this 
regulation.   

 (5)  DA Form 5225  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Medical Dispensation Record) provides information about 
medication administered by authorized CDS personnel and FCC providers to children while in attendance at a CDS pro-
gram. This form includes the sponsor’s consent for this service and will be completed by the parent or guardian and CDS 
personnel ( para 4  –  32). DA Form 5225  –  R will be reproduced locally on 8 by 5– inch card stock, printed head to foot. A 
copy of the form for reproduction is located at the back of this regulation.  
(6)  DA Form 5305 (Family Care P lan), or a locally generated form with pertinent information (to include the name 
address and telephone number of the individual named as custodian) from the Family Care Plan (FCP) will be maintained 
in the CDS central Enrollment Registry for sponsors required to have an FCP as required in paragraph  4–2c. 
(7)  DA Form 5226  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Sponsor/Program Agreement) identifies and clarifies the 
responsibilities of the parent or guardian and the CDS program  regarding provision and acceptance of CDS services. A 
signed copy will be given to the sponsor. DA Form 5226  –  R specifies — 
(a)  Types of services to be provided.  
(b)  Fees and charges.  
(c)  Program policies.  
(d)  Parental desires concerning care of child . 
Note.  CDS management personnel and FCC providers may add specific items necessary to meet program unique require-
ments. Parents and CDS management personnel or FCC providers will complete and sign the form annually. DA Form 
5226  –  R will be reproduced locally on 81⁄2 by 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for reproduction is located at the back of 
this regulation.  
(8)  USDA CACFP enrollment forms determine patron eligibility categories and reimbursement levels for program par-
ticipation. The forms will be supplied by the USDA State or Regional Office that administers the program for Continental 
United States (CONUS) installations. Forms will be completed annually by the patron, CDS personnel, and State or Re-
gional USDA officials. USDA CACFP is not available  for outside continental United States (OCONUS) locations.  
(9)  DA Form 4106 (Report of Unusual Occurrence) may be used for unusual occurrences, parental complaints, parent 
conference data, illness, injury, communicable diseases, etc.  
b.  Records specified  in paragraph  2–13a(1), (2), (6), (7) or copies of them, will be maintained centrally within the FCC 
system.  
c.  Records specified in paragraph  2–13a(3), (4), (5) or copies of them, will  be kept within the appropriate CDS child 
activity space in each facility or in applicable SPS settings to enable caregiving employees use of information to support 
child programming needs.  
d.  Signed copies of records specified in 2 –13a(1) and (6) will, w here applicable, be retained in the CDS Central En-
rollment Registry.  
e.  Records will be duplicated for children enrolled in programs located in separate facilities and update each year, dating 
from the day of program enrollment and as needed.  
f.  Local CD S identification cards showing that the patron has met CDS eligibility and admission requirements are rec-
ommended.  
g.  Copies of children’s records involving DA forms are authorized for use within any CDS program and will be given 
reciprocity by installations to ensure a level of consistency throughout the Army CDS system.  
h.  Records will be on file as long as a child is enrolled. Copies of the records may be given to parents for use in other 
program services or upon termination from the program.  
i.  Recor ds of children who have had a serious accident, injury, or unusual occurrence requiring emergency consultation 
or treatment at a medical treatment facility, will be retained within the CDS system for 3 years after the occurrence.  