
5  –  27.  Facility design and alterations  
a.  Construction of all new facilities, additions/alterations to existing facilities and maintenance and repair to existing 
facilities will be in accordance with the following guidance:  
(1)  Army CDS standard d esigns and the current Architectural and Engineering Instruction (AEI) shall be used as the 
prescribed minimum construction standards for all CDC facilities. State and local construction standards may be used for construction of child development facilitie s if the state and local standards are more stringent than the Army standards.  
(2)  Addition/alteration projects will incorporate most current AEI Design Criteria, appendix  G to the extent possible.  
(3)  Maintenance and repair of existing facilities will be in consonance with the most current AEI Design Criteria to the 
extent possible within the limitations of the facility.  
(4)  New construction, addition/alternation projects and existing facilities used for CDCs will mee t standards as outlined 
in appendix  C of this regulation.  
b.  Design guidance and coordination will be provided as follows:  
(1)  The Chief of Engineers (COE) will issue design criteria and provide technical guidance acco rding to paragraph  2–
1f. 
(2)  Facility plans and design documents for all new or construction projects including CPMC NAF alteration projects 
and OMA minor construction will be coordinated with CEEC, USACFSC (CFSC
 –  SF  –  CY),  and MACOM CDS program 
proponents.  
(3)  Plans will be coordinated with the installation Director of Engineering and Housing for review by the Health Con-
sultant, the CDS coordinator, and the Installation Safety Officer prior to the initiation of any solicitations for a construction 
contract.  
(4)  Projects will comply with design criteria in effect at the time the project is authorized for completion of the final 
design.  
(5)  If state and local standards are more stringent than Army standards, the state and l ocal standards are required when 
the child development facility is located in an area over which the United States Federal Government has no legislative 
jurisdiction.  
(6)  When walls are replaced, large vision panels shall be included to increase visibilit y into areas in which children are 
receiving care.  
c.  Part–day preschool programs which are located in a separate facility or annex, rather than in a CDC which also serves 
younger children, may follow the educational occupancy standards for existing facil ities as outlined by the National Fire 
Protection Association (NFPA) Life Safety Code 101. Satellite centers which serve hourly and full day children must meet CDC standards.  