
3  –  19.  CDS management personnel  
a.  MACOM and installation CDS coordinators should attend — 
(1)  CDS training sponsored by USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY), (CFSC  –  HR  –  T) and DOD to include update training and 
CFSC entry level management courses.  
(2)  CPO management related courses.  
b.  CDS system directors should attend USACFSC (CFSC  –  HR  –  T) sponsored entry level management course.  
c.  CDC directors should attend USACFSC (CFSC  –  HR  –  T) sponsored CDC director Course.  
d.  Installation system and program directors, assistant directors, TACS, SAS program specialists, FCC outreach work-
ers should attend — 
(1)  At least one professional training session per year dealing with developmental programming and administration 
related to their specific program type. Attendance at CDS program specific training workshops sponsored by MACOM, 
USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY), USACFSC (CFSC  –  HR  –  T), and DOD is strongly encouraged.  
(2)  CPO management related courses.  
e.  Fire, safety, preventive medicine and security proponents will train CDS management personnel on procedures for 
conducting facility and home walk –through inspections.  
f.  All installation CDC and FCC management staff will complete the modules of the Red Cross Accident Prevention 
and Emergency Response Course or equivalent within the first six months of employment.  
g.  CDC directors and CDC prog ram directors will receive initial and on –going training while working center programs 
for CDS. Orientation will be provided within the first two weeks of hire according to the most current guidance from 
HQDA. On –going training requirements in the training program for CDC directors and CDC programs directors should 
include those published as the CDS Management Personnel Cumulative Individual Development Plan (IDP) Training 
Record for the CDC directors as follows:  
(1)  Entry (within 3 months of hire) is as f ollows:  
(a)  Child Abuse Identification, Reporting, Prevention (DOD module)  
(b)  Child Protection: Everybody’s Business (video)  
(c)  Child Abuse Risk Assessment Tool (CARAT)  
(d)  Environment Rating Scale (instrument and video)  
(e)  First Aid  
(f)  Cardiopul monary Resuscitation (CPR)  
(g)  Parent -Center Partnership  
(2)  Foundation Training (Within 12 months of hire)  
(a)  Food Service Sanitation  
(b)  Special Needs Care 
(c)  Entry Level Management Course (CFSC Training Center)  
(d)  CPO Beginning Supervisors Course  
(e)  Effective Writing and Communication  
(f)  MARKS  
(g)  Peer Training at Model CDC Program  
(3)  On–Going/Annual Training is as follows:  
(a)  Professional Development Options (e.g., National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) na-
tional or regional conferences, Head Start regional training, local High –Scope seminar, director’s professional network)  
(b)  CDC Director’s Course (CFSC Training Center)  
(c)  Family Advocacy Staff Training Course  
(d)  Food and Beverage Course (CFSC Trai ning Center)  