
4  –  13.  Rest and quiet  
a.  Rest periods will be provided appropriate to ages and needs of children with at least one hour scheduled for all 
children under five years enrolled in full –day care.  
b.  Children who cannot rest or sleep may participate in activities that do not disturb others who are sleeping. Children 
who have rested for the minimum period should not be required to remain in the napping area.  
c.  Provisions will be made for each child to rest or nap on an individual bed, crib, cot, couch, or mat.  
d.  There will be one crib, cot, or mat for every child under 18 months in attendance for full –day care and at  least one 
crib, cot, or mat for every two children under 18 months of age enrolled for hourly care. Minimal use of cribs for children over 12 months is recommended.  
e.  Reduced –sized cribs may be used instead of, or in addition to, standard– sized cribs. Crib slat spaces will not be 
greater than 23⁄8 –inches.  
f.  There will be a cot or mat available for each child over 18 months of age who is present during group rest and nap 
periods.   

 g.  Mattresses will have waterproof covers. Cots, mats, or cribs must be s anitized before being used by another child 
and after a child has soiled a mattress during a toileting accident. If labeled with a child’s name and used by that child 
continuously, they will be sanitized weekly or as needed.  
h.  Each child using a cot, mat , or crib will be given a bed covering if needed. Bed coverings must be laundered before 
being used by another child. If used continuously by one child, each item will be labeled and must be laundered weekly or as needed.  
i.  Pillows will not be used for c hildren under three years.  
j.  Cribs, cots, or mats must be placed at least two feet apart on all sides while being used by children sleeping or resting. 
Cribs with solid headboards may be placed head to head when used by children under nine months of age.  
k.  Separate crib rooms in center –based settings are not permitted. Crib and play areas will be integrated to preclude 
isolation of sleeping infants.  
l.  Total room darkening at anytime  is not necessary in any areas. Rooms will not be darkened during rest/sleeping 
periods to the extent that adult visual supervision is limited.  
m.  Adults may not lie or sleep on children’s cots or on the floor. This does not preclude caregiving employees and FCC 
providers from sitting with children to settle them for resting.  