
2  –  26.  Management procedures for minimizing the potential risk of abusive situations in center 
settings  
The following management procedures will be initiated to minimize the risk of abusive situations in Army CDCs.  
a.  Access to children by strangers, delivery, maintenance personnel, and other visitors will be restricted. A visitor sign –
in/out log at the front desk or with appropriate personnel (i.e., food service deliveries with the cook) will be maintained a t 
all times.  
b.  Because many child abuse incidents are opportunistic, tasks such as playground supervision, diapering, toileting and 
nap supervision will be shared by caregiving employees so no one individual always remains in the same area or role.  
c.  A daily record of the children in attendance in each activity room/module will be maintained for all programs includ-
ing full –day, part –day and hourly care. This record will include the child’s name and time– in/time –out and the time –
in/time –out of CDC employees and CDS volunteer s assigned to the room/module.   

 d.  Field trips involving walking or vehicular transportation will have at least two adults supervising the children at all 
times. Written advance notice will be given to all parents and a written record of dates, times, and sponsored field trips 
will be maintained for one year (see para  2–21e). The center director/designee will give written permission (e.g., log, 
record) whenever children leave the center (e.g., field trip). The time of departure and return shall be noted.  
e.  Parents will have access to their child’s activity room/module at all times of program operation.  
f.  CDS employees will take appropriate steps to ensure children are released only to parents or designated adults. P roper 
identification will be requested of unfamiliar adults to verify that the person who picks the child up is the authorized 
designee.  
g.  An SOP will be developed which addresses care of children who remain after closing hours when no previous ar-
rangeme nts have been made. Under no circumstances will a CDS employee take a child to the employee’s home unless 
authorized by the installation commander to do so.  
h.  The SPS director and FAPM will sponsor annual parent education programs on child abuse preventi on and identifi-
cation and reporting procedures, as well as guidance techniques.  
i.  For other detailed guidance, refer to the following:  
(1)  Specialized child abuse prevention education, see paragraph  2  –  29. 
(2)  FCC manage ment training, see paragraph  3  –  20. 
(3)  Daily admission and release procedures, see paragraph  4  –  8. 
(4)  Discipline, see paragraph  4  –  10. 
(5)  Room darkening restrictions, see paragraph  4  –  13. 
(6)  Standing operating procedures, see paragraph  5  –  12. 
(7)  Staffing patterns, see paragraph  5  –  14. 
(8)  Supervision of CDS personnel, see paragraph  5  –  15. 
(9)  Program oversight for new caregiving employees, see paragraph  5  –  16. 
(10)  Supervision of children, see paragraph  5  –  17. 
(11)  Vision panel requirements, see paragraph  5–31a. 
(12)  Facility security arrangements, see paragraph  5  –  34. 
(13)  CDC child abuse risk assessment tool, see paragraph  5  –  54. 