
7  –  28.  Parent co –ops 
Parent co –ops may be established to provide care for children whose parents are available to participate in the operation 
and management of this care option.  
a.  Parent co –ops may be organized with the approval of the commander to provide baby -sitting services, infant and 
toddler playgroup services, school –age services and part –day preschool services. Parent co –ops may be designed to meet 
a specific installation need e.g., sole parent baby -sitting co –op. 
b.  Parent co –ops may be operated in housing units, designated government buildings or within the CDC setting. Center 
or FCC ratios will be maintained based on the site location.  
c.  All CDC standards apply when parent co– ops are operated in a center –based setting and all parents of children in 
attendance are not present on –site or immediately accessible to their own children throughout the duration of the parent 
co–op session.  
d.  CDS standards do not apply when parent co– ops are operated as play groups and a parent of each child is in attend-
ance throughout the duration of the p arent co –op session.  
e.  FCC standards will apply when parent co –op members provide care in individual housing units for more than 10 
child hours per week on a regular basis.  
f.  FCC standards do not apply when co– ops are offered within individual housing units as a baby -sitting service and 
co–op members do not offer care on a regular basis or care does not exceed 10 child hours per week. The 10 child hour 
restriction does not apply when multiple children of the same family are in care.  
g.  The SPS director  will assist parents in establishing parent co –ops by — 
(1)  Providing technical assistance in developing local SOPs for each type of center –based and quarters –based co –op 
which specify requirements regarding, but not limited to safety, fire prevention, dis cipline, health, pets and plants, training, 
child abuse prevention and response procedures, program operations, and supervision. SOPs will also include, at a mini-
mum, the following:  
(a)  Applicable facility criteria.   

 (b)  Criteria for caregiving adults.  
(c)  Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.  
(d)  Procedures for co –op membership.  
(e)  Procedures for monitoring and reporting hours of care used and provided.  
(f)  Procedures for cancellation of co –op membership.  
(2)  Training requirements for co –op memb ers will be determined by the SPS director and approved by the CDS coor-
dinator. The extent of the training required will reflect the co –op environment (center –based, quarters –based), average 
length of time children are in care, ages of children served, co –op purpose (e.g., baby -sitting, preschool, before and after 
school program) and other installation specific variables.  
(a)  In center –based settings where co –op programs duplicate or replace CDC services (preschool, hourly care), training 
requirements must  be consistent with CDC training requirements for similar programs.  
(b)  In quarters –based settings where care exceeds 10 child hours per week on a regular basis co –op members must meet 
FCC training requirements.  
(c)  In quarters –based settings where 10 or  less child hours of care are provided per week on a regular basis minimal 
training (i.e., child abuse identification and child guidance) should be required to encourage parent participation.  
(d)  Co–op members will regularly be invited to participate in a pplicable CDC, FCC and SPS training offered on the 
installation.  
(3)  Maintaining oversight and technical assistance responsibilities to the co –ops. 
(4)  Including co –op information in the CDS resource and referral service.  
(5)  Collecting and reporting co –op information to include number and types of co– ops, number of co– ops members, 
number and ages of children and number/rank of sponsors served 
h.  Parent co –ops will be evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron satisfaction surveys.  