
1  –  7.  CDS concept  
a.  CDS is a network of child care delivery systems through which the Army provides quality child development options 
that reduce the conflict between parental responsibilities and unit mission requirements. Increasing numbers of sole and 
dual military parents, co upled with an increase in working spouses and the frequent relocation of Service families, have 
combined to increase demand for child care.  
b.  Soldiers look to the military establishment to provide services that assist parents in their child –rearing respo nsibili-
ties. The military family does not have the stability of an established neighborhood or the proximity of relatives to allow 
for a constant and reliable child care plan. Off –post civilian programs are often inaccessible, unaffordable, and have limite d 
operating hours. Most private child care operations do not provide care for infants or toddlers, have no hourly services, 
and have waiting lists for vacancies. Off –post family day care homes are often not licensed or certified and may be un-
monitored for health, safety, and quality of service factors.  
c.  CDS is designed to assist commanders in fulfilling their morale and welfare responsibilities to soldiers and their 
families. CDS should identify child care needs and coordinate installation resources to m eet service demand. To effectively 
accomplish this task, command commitment to and involvement in CDS operations is essential.  
d.  Child care is not considered an entitlement, CDS is offered as a supplement to, not a substitute for the family as the 
primar y agent for the care and development of the child. Quality CDS options can strengthen and sustain child and parent 
relationships. However, the Army and parents should work together to ensure that these options for care will exist.  
e.  CDS offers care optio ns with various types of service, locations, hours of operation, and fee schedules that are re-
sponsive to the needs of military families living both on and off –post.  
(1)  CDC services within centralized installation facilities offer closely monitored, structured group experiences relevant 
to the age and development of the child.  
(2)  FCC homes within government owned or leased quarters, or privately owned housing on an installation offer a 
family atmosphere with a limited number of children, flexible ho urs, and the capability of addressing special requirements.  
(3)  SPS increase child care capabilities by providing on and off –post alternative child care programs and support ser-
vices.  