
7  –  31.  SPS homes  
SPS homes located and operated by family members or civilians off –post may be established to meet the child care needs 
of eligible CDS patrons. SPS homes may be established with the approval of the installation commander and, when re-quired, the approval of the county/State/host nation agency responsible for monitoring FCC homes.  
a.  The SPS director’s responsibilities for this option include — 
(1)  Developing agreements with applicable county/State/host nation agencies to permit Army family members or in-
terested civilians to operate off –post SPS homes in the civilian community under the joint oversight of the SPS director 
and the appropriate county/State/host nation agency. These agreements will — 
(a)  Be signed by the installation commander and the appropriate county/State/host nation officials.   

 (b)  Specify SPS responsibility for training SPS providers in accordance with  Army FCC providers’ training program 
and oversight responsibilities for provision of appropriate developmental programming.  
(c)  Specify county/State/host nation responsibility for oversight of safety, health, and fire standards and any other op-
erational requirements.  
(d)  Specify that SPS homes will be licensed/certified by the appropriate civilian regulatory agency. Army certification 
will not be given.  
(2)  Monitoring all registered off –post SPS homes to ensure compliance with provider requirements for training, pro-
vider certification and developmental care in county/State/host nation or this regulation, whichever is more stringent. No-
tifying appropriate county/State/host national agency of violations of their requirements when such violations are obviou s. 
(3)  Referring eligible CDS patrons to off –post SPS homes based on space available and proximity to the patron’s home.  
(4)  Recruiting DOD civilian spouses, military family members, and local residents to provide care in the off –post SPS 
home program.  
b.  Family members operating SPS homes will meet the same background, training, and developmental programming 
requirements as family members operating FCC homes.  
c.  Family members operating SPS homes will meet the county/State/host nation fire, safety, and  other licensing require-
ments.  
d.  The SPS director will coordinate closely with the FCC director to maximize program resources including training 
opportunities.  
e.  SPS home providers will not be included in the claims program.  
f.  The SPS director will d evelop an installation SPS home SOP in coordination with county/State/host nation authorities 
based on chapters  4 and 6 to include, but not limited to — 
(1)  SPS responsibilities.  
(2)  County/State/host nation responsibilities.  
(3)  Services offered.  
(4)  Program management procedures.  
(5)  Provider requirements.  
(6)  Training requirements.  
(7)  Child abuse prevention and response procedures.  
(8)  Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.  
g.  The SPS director will maintain records required to complete DA Form 5246  –  R Section V.  
h.  The SPS home program will be evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron satisfaction surveys.  