
3  –  7.  Resignation of an officer who did not meet medical fitness standards when appointed  
a.  A probationary officer who did not meet medical fitness standards when accepted for appointment but now 
meets the medical fitness standards for retention may submit a r esignation.  
b.  A medical board must find that the officer has a medical condition that — 
(1)  Would have permanently disqualified the officer for entry in the military service had the condition been de-
tected at the time of acceptance for appointment.  
(2)  Does not disqualify the officer for retention in the military service under AR 40  –  501. 
(3)  Was not service aggravated; however, a service aggravated condition that does not disqualify the officer for 
retention under AR 40  –  501 precludes eligibility for  resignation.  
c.  Separation instructions on approved requests will be issued by HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) to the appropriate MPD.  
d.  As applicable, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER) will return disapproved 
requests through channels to the officer.  
e.  A DD Form 256 will be issued.  
f.  The steps required for processing resignation of an officer who did not meet medical fitness standards when 
appointed are shown in table  3  –  3. 
 
Table 3  –  3 
Resignation for failure to meet medical standards at time of appointment  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Submits resignation (see fig 3  –  2).  

 Table 3  –  3 
Resignation for failure to meet medical standards at time of appointment  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
2 SACT  
BN S  –  1 
C&S Forwards the officer’s request for resignation with supporting medical documents and Medical Board pro-
ceedings through administrative channels to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH 
(DACH  –  PER), as applicable. The first forwarding endorsement will include a—  
a. Recommendation for approval or disapproval and type of discharge to be furnished. Also include com-
plete justification when disapproval is recommended.  
b. Statement that the officer is not under investigation or charges, awaiting result of trial, being considered 
for administrative elimination, AWOL,  under control of civil authorities, or insane.  
c. Statement that necessary action has been or will be taken to adjust or close any public property or finan-
cial accounts of the officer concerned.  
d. Statement if the officer is serving OCONUS and requests s eparation OCONUS that the foreign country 
concerned specifically consents to the officer’s separation in that country.  
3 SACT (TC)  Upon receipt of separation instructions, processes officer for separation. Final orders and forms will cite 
regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 