

 5  –  21.  Indoor program equipment and mate rials.  
The following program equipment, materials, and supplies will be provided as a minimum in each activity room/ module 
used by children in that age group category. Program equipment and materials will be of institutional quality. Specifications  
as to requirement for quantity, levels of complexity, and age- related equipment appropriate to support age group numbers 
and activity centers will be determined by the program director and TACS assigned to the age group or program type.  
a.  Infants . 
(1)  Language development.   Cloth/cardboard books, puppets.  
(2)  Infant stimulation.   Mobiles, unbreakable mirrors or reflecting surfaces, posters, wall hangings, and adult rocking 
chair.  
(3)  Manipulative toys.   Washable soft toys (multi -colored, sized, shaped, and t extured); rattles; soft blocks; shape sort-
ers; art materials; and miscellaneous perceptual and fine motor materials.  
(4)  Music.   Records and record player or tape recorder and cassettes; musical toys or chimes.  
(5)  Motor coordination.   Push and pull toys, walking support rail, wheel toys, and floor mats.  
b.  Toddlers and preschool -age. 
(1)  Arts and crafts materials.   Paint, paint brushes, easels, crayons, collage materials, paper, scissors, clay, play dough.  
(2)  Readiness activities.   Materials that  promote development of concepts such as shapes, numbers, letters, and size and 
space relationships.  
(3)  Language arts.   Books, flannel boards, puppets and props, and listening centers.  
(4)  Manipulative toys.   Pegs, beads, games, puzzles, pounding boards , small building sets.  
(5)  Blocks and accessories.   Construction sets, unit blocks, large blocks, figures of people, and animals, transportation 
fleets and accessories, and props to support block building themes.  
(6)  Science.   Magnets, magnifying glasses , scales, child -proof thermometers, appropriate resource books, animal cages 
and terrarium, garden tools, and flower pots.  
(7)  Music.   Recordplayer and records or tape recorder and cassettes, rhythm instruments, autoharp or piano (optional).  
(8)  Imaginat ive play.   Beds, store front, cash register, ethnic dolls, stove, sink, refrigerator, table, chairs, cooking uten-
sils, dressup clothes (male and female), mirrors, puppets, prop boxes, and accessories to support various play themes.  
(9)  Sensory materials.   Sand and water tables with accessories such as molds, sand wheels, funnels, scoops, siphons, 
pumps, pouring containers, pails, shovels, tactile materials, and tools.  
(10)  Nutrition.   Variety of cooking utensils, bowls, pans, cutting board, aprons, small appliances.  
(11)  Motor coordination.   Floor mats, climbing equipment, riding toys, balls, bean bags, balance beams, parachute 
hoops, pom poms, streamers.  
c.  School -age.  Selection of age -appropriate materials and equipment in accordance with 5 -20e and 5  –  31. Chairs and 
tables of the appropriate height will be provided.  
d.  Hourly program.   Toys, materials, and equipment selected for use in hourly programs should be varied, support 
different development levels, and have a minimum of loose or small pieces.  Materials should not require sequential learn-
ing skills before they can be used effectively by a child.  
e.  Special needs.   Modified equipment and supplies will be provided as prescribed by Special Needs Resource Team to 
support the Special Needs Program outlined at paragraph  5–2d. 