
6  –  47.  Standards for privately or commercially owned housing on a military installation  
a.  Wherry and Government leased housing.   Existing Wherry and Government leased housing must meet structural, 
fire, safety and health standards as required by this regulation. Compliance must be verified by the FCC director and the 
DEH before FCC certification will be granted.  
b.  Mobile homes and trailers.   Mobile homes/trailers must meet the following criteria.  
(1)  Construction of mobile homes will meet the requirements of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Part 3280, 
title 24, Code of Federal Regulations except as modified below.  
(a)  All rooms used for sleeping, dining, and gene ral living, excluding bathrooms will have at least two means of 
egress/escape, one of which may be a window. Window egress will be less than 22 inches from the floor and have a minimum clear opening of 5 square feet.  
(b)  All rooms used for sleeping, dinin g, and general living excluding bathrooms will be provided with a battery operated 
or hard wired smoke detector in addition to those already required in hallways by the code referenced in paragraph  6–
47b(1). 
(c)  Interior  finishes for new and existing mobile homes will meet the code reference in paragraph  6–47b(1). 
(d)  A smoke detector will be installed in the kitchen or a sprinkler will be tied into the domestic water system.  
(e)  An op erable multi– purpose ABC dry chemical extinguisher (minimum 21⁄2 pounds) fire extinguisher will be pro-
vided and located in the kitchen, at a wall height of not less than 48 inches to the bottom of the extinguisher.  
(f)  A skirted barrier will be provided a round the exterior walls to prevent children from gaining access into the open 
space beneath the home. The barrier will be of substantial construction with noncombustible materials, or the same type 
of materials used for the exterior walls of the home. Chi ld proof locks will be provided on access doors to crawl spaces.  
(g)  Handrails will be provided where there are more than two entrance steps to the home. The handrail will be at least 
30 inches high and have intermediate rails or an ornamental design, suc h that a sphere 6 inches in diameter cannot pass 
through any openings in such handrails. Height of handrails at the top of the stair landings, if provided, will be at least 3 6 
inches.  
(h)  Entrance steps will have slip –resistant treads.  
(i)  Compliance mus t be verified by the FCC director and DEH before FCC certification will be granted.  
(2)  Before privately or commercially owned housing may be certified, the owner must sign a consent for home inspec-
tion ( fig 6
 –  3) allowing inspection of the home by FCC and DEH personnel as required by this regulation. Any deficiencies 
must be corrected at the owner’s expense prior to FCC certification.  
Section VIII  
Fire Prevention Compliance Requirements  