

 6  –  19.  Claims Arising from the Activities of FCC Providers  
a.  Effective 1 Oct 85, the Army Risk Management Program (RIMP) established a program to provid e for the payment 
of certain claims arising from the activities of FCC providers. To be cognizable, claims must arise from child care provided 
as part of the quarter –based system of care authorized by this regulation. See AR 27  –  20, Chapter  12 and AR 215  –  1, 
Chapter  14 for details regarding this claims program.  
b.  A Provider Statement of Understanding Regarding Family Child Care ( fig 6  –  3) will be reproduced locally and will 
be signed by each fully certified and provisionally certified FCC provider as part of the certification process. A copy of 
the signed Statement of Understanding will be retained on file within the FCC syst em. 
c.  A Parental Statement of Understanding Regarding Family Child Care ( fig 6  –  4), with optional permission/waiver 
regarding transportation of children in private vehicles, must be signed by the parent/guardian of the child for whom care is provided.  
d.  Authorized NAF claims costs associated with the FCC program will be determined by the Commander, USACFSC 
or his designee. Once so determined, the local morale, welfare, and recreation fund will be assessed its share o f these costs 
by USACFSC. The local fund should recover these costs from the individual FCC providers prior to provisional certifica-tion and annually thereafter. The Installation Financial Management Division will issue duplicate prenumbered receipts. 
A co py of this receipt will be kept in the FCC provider’s file and the provider will keep the other copy. There are no 
refunds when a provider leaves the program. However, if a provider transfers to a new installation during the fiscal year, 
the provider shoul d show the receipt at the new installation.  
e.  The claims program established by RIMP is intended to provide certain limited claims relief as described in AR 
27
 –  20, Chapter  12 and AR 215  –  1, Chapter  14. It is not a substitute for private liability insurance. Whether to carry private 
liability insurance is an independent business decision to be made by the FCC provider. Regardless of the decision to carry 
private insurance, any payme nt due the local MWR fund as described above is a precondition to participating in the FCC 
program.  
f.  FCC director/outreach workers will provide each fully certified and provisionally certified FCC provider a summary 
of all regulatory guidance and local SOPs that govern the provision of FCC on the installation. A copy of the regulation 
will be available for FCC provider review upon request.  