
4  –  8.  Daily admission and release procedures  
a.  Parent access.  
(1)  Parents will have access to their child’s activity room/module or the FCC home during all times of child attendance.  
(2)  Children enrolled in CDS programs will be delivered to and picked up from their designated care settings by parents 
or a parent designee. This does not preclude group busing of children to a spec ific CDS facility or program (see para 4  –  11). 
Children who are not bussed must be taken directly to their child activity room/module in center –based settings and may 
not be dropped off either outside the facility or at the reception desk. This does not apply to school –age children walking 
independently to the CDS/SAS setting with parental consent on DA Form 5222  –  R. 
(3)  Parents will be able to exchange information upon children’s arrival and departure with the caregiving s taff and 
FCC providers who care for their children.  
(4)  Parents are responsible for the children’s safe arrival and departure from the facility/program or busing area.  
b.  Child health screening.   Designated center –based and SPS personnel and all FCC providers will observe each child 
for obvious signs of illness upon arrival and before the parent leaves. Routine temperature taking is not authorized.  
c.  Child release.  
(1)  Unless prior written arrangements have been made with CDS personnel, only parent s or parent designees shown on 
DA Form 4719  –  R may take a child from a CDS program.  
(2)  Children may not be released to siblings or other children under age 13 unless approved by the program director on 
a case– by–case basis.  
(3)  School –age children may not leave a program unaccompanied without written permission from the parent.  
(4)  No parent may be denied access to a child including the right to pick up a child from a CDC, SPS program, or FCC 
home unless a copy of the custody agreement or court restrai ning order that relinquishes such parental rights is on file in 
the caregiving site.  
(5)  CDS personnel and FCC providers will coordinate with the Provost Marshal Office regarding release of children to 
parents or authorized release designees who appear to  be under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Procedures will be 
addressed under an SOP on this area.  