
6  –  20.  Training  
The TACS assigned to the FCC system in conjunction with the FCC director and CDS coordinator will establish and 
conduct a training program for all FCC providers for which there will be no fee charged. Training topics will include child 
growth and development, child health and nutrition, developmental programming, recordkeeping, discipline techniques, 
parent relations, regulatory compliance, child abuse identification and reporting, business practices, SOPs, safety and other 
subjects as determined by the CDS coordinator and FCC program director. Training will be conducted as follows:  
a.  All potential (r egistered) providers will complete 20 hours of training prior to provisional certification as outlined on 
the FCC Provisional Certification Training Record.  
b.  All provisionally certified FCC providers will complete 18 credit hours of training (three per month) during the 6 
months of provisional certification status as outlined on the certification training record.  
c.  Following full certification, FCC providers will complete 24 hours of inservice training annually. A minimum of 6 
hours of training will be  completed each quarter. Content of this training will be determined by the FCC provider, and 
TACS with the approval of the FCC director. DA Form 5763  –  R and the IDP Annual Inservice Training Review format 
will be used to record this training.  
d.  FCC pro viders must complete training as stated in paragraph  3  –  18 to maintain FCC certification status. Failure to 
complete the required training will result in suspension of the FCC provider from the FCC delivery system.  
e.  At th e end of the 3 –year certification period, the FCC provider must meet the following criteria before another 3 year 
certification may be issued. As part of the FCC certification renewal process, the FCC provider will be successfully eval-
uated with an environ mental rating scale, the FCC CARAT and update training on — 
(1)  Child abuse identification, reporting, and prevention.  
(2)  CPR and first aid.  
(3)  Communicable diseases and administration of medication.  
f.  All FCC training will be competency based (e.g.,  the training is presented and instructed in such a way that the 
knowledge and skills taught can be observed during the provision of care).  