
6  –  32.  Indoor child activity spaces  
a.  The FCC home is used both for family living and child care. The use and arrangement of space in the home will 
depend on the age and number of children care d for, the needs of the FCC provider’s family and the amount and layout of 
available space. Without completely disrupting normal family routines, FCC providers must be willing to make some 
adjustments to the family home. As a minimum, the following must be  provided:  
(1)  Space for individual storage of children’s belongings.  
(2)  Protected, safe places for sleep or rest.  
(3)  Open, safe space to play, explore, and pretend.  
(4)  Protected safe places for infants to crawl if infant care is provided.  
(5)  Space for large muscle activity and safe exploration for toddlers.  
(6)  Designated spaces where children may read, draw or do other quiet activities.  
b.  An FCC home must have sufficient space in relationship to the number and ages of children in care to accommodate 
the full range of developmental needs of children, particularly those physical needs affected by space limitations. When questionable, sufficient space will be determined cooperatively by local fire, health, safety and CDS personnel.  
c.  Basemen t rooms will not be used for the care of children unless they are dry, free from fire hazards, and have adequate 
exits as determined by the installation fire marshal. Children may not have access from the basement care area to other 
basement areas which co ntain heating elements or other safety hazards.  
d.  A flush toilet and lavatory will be within a reasonable distance to spaces occupied by children.  
e.  Breakable objects in areas accessible to children will be removed to avoid breakage or potential discipline problems. 
Breakable objects in homes serving infants and toddlers will be at levels that infants and toddlers cannot reach. Children 
under age three will not be allowed in areas with breakable objects, including napping locations, unless they ar e directly 
supervised by the FCC provider.  