
2  –  11.  Exceptions to policy  
a.  Exceptions to existing criteria may be requested only when alternative m ethods of compliance do not endanger the 
safety or well –being of the children in care. Exceptions will only be granted when the intent of the standard can be met by 
means other than that specified or stated as an equivalency in the single source criteria. Exceptions to policy are required for the following:  
(1)  Deviation from regulatory requirements for CDC, FCC, or SPS systems.  
(2)  New facility construction which deviates from the Department of the Army approved standard/definitive designs 
for CDCs.  
(3)  Deviation from design criteria in paragraph  5
 –  27. 
(4)  Facility deficiencies in existing or renovated CDCs.  
b.  Requests for exceptions must be made in writing and include the following information:  
(1)  CDS system and program type (e.g., center hourly care, FCC infant/toddler home).  
(2)  Identification of the unmet single source standard including document source and paragraph.  
(3)  Description of condition(s) needing alternative equivalency.  
(4)  Installation proponents involved in request (e.g., DEH, community health nurse, safety officer).  
(5)  Rationale for exception.  
(6)  Proposed alternative equivalency or compensatory action(s).  
(7)  Projected compliance date including major milestones (if applicable).  
(8)  Facility number (if applicable).  
(9)  A floor plan, and photographic documentation as necessary to ensure complete clarity of request (facility exceptions 
only).  
c.  Appropriate installation functional proponents as well as the commander, must review and sign all exception requests.  
d.  Approval authority for exceptions to policy will be granted only by higher headquarters as follows:   

 (1)  MACOMs may determine alternative equivalencies upon review of installation data submitted and following doc-
umented informal c oordination (e.g., telephonic, fax with appropriate HQDA proponent(s)) including USACFSC 
(CFSC  –  SF  –  CY) to ensure consistency and appropriateness of compensatory actions.  
(2)  In cases where a coordinated resolution between MACOM and ARSTAF proponents can not be achieved, the re-
quest for exception will be forwarded to Commander, USACFSC, ATTN: CFSC  –  SF  –  CY, 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Al-
exandria, VA 22331  –  0521, who will staff issue for resolution by higher authorities.  
(3)  Exceptions to life safety criteria will require an onsite visit by MACOM to installation.  
(4)  MACOMs will forward copies of all exception approvals (alternative equivalencies) and disapprovals to Com-
mander, USACFSC, ATTN: CFSC  –  SF  –  CY, 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 2233 1  –  0521, and ARSTAF pro-
ponent simultaneously with release to requesting installations.  
e.  Alternative equivalencies which are determined by ARSTAF proponents to have Army -wide application, will be 
included in the CDS single source criteria.  
f.  All reque sts for waivers (temporary conditions which compensate for non –compliance with established standards/ 
criteria for a limited specified period of time) must be forwarded by the MACOM to USACFSC ATTN: CFSC  –  SF  –  CY, 
2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22 310  –  0521, for approval at the ARSTAF level. Waivers will be granted only 
under exceptional conditions when installation and MACOM documentation indicates no alternative equivalency is pos-
sible. Waivers are reportable to higher authorities.  
g.  Responses to requests for exception to policy and waiver approvals will generally be provided within 30 calendar 
days of receipt by the higher authority.  
h.  See policy modifications and waiver authority under mobilization and contingency planning paragraph  4–2c. 
Section III  
Recordkeeping Requirements  