
5  –  11.  Operating hours  
The installation commander will approve operational hours for programs within CDCs. The CDS coordinator will recom-
mend a schedule of operation based on patron requirements surveys including input from sole/dual military parents, doc-
umented use of services, center financial feasibility studies, and availability of alternative FCC, SPS, and other care op-tions.  
a.  Operational hours must support sol dier mission requirements.  
b.  Center operating hours for full –day programs will reflect installation variable duty hours including accommodations 
for alerts and physical training schedules for active duty military, when the demand for extended hours care is for 10 or more children (or fewer children if determined appropriate by the installation commander).  
c.  When there are fewer than 10 children within a center requiring extended hours care for mission requirements, the 
installation CDS coordinator will identify alternative arrangements within the CDS system if the center cannot meet the 
need for care.  
d.  Hours of operation will be posted within the center and publicized through appropriate forums including post news-
papers and ACS welcome packets accessi ble to patrons.  
e.  Hours offered including evening and weekend services will be consistently provided to ensure predictable services 
for patrons.  
f.  Hours of operation will be reviewed semi –annually. The following considerations will be weighed when reco mmend-
ing operational hours.  
(1)  Full–day parents may require 1 hour or more commuting time to work sites.  
(2)  Physical training requirements for active duty military may require earlier or later operating hours.   

 (3)  Hourly services at least one evening per week and for an 8 –hour span on Saturday are reflective of most community 
needs.  
(4)  Extended hours in support of mission requirements (e.g., reserved slots for inprocessing soldiers, extended operating 
hours during training exercises and alerts) may i ncrease operating cost due to lower occupancy rates and differential labor 
costs.  
g.  Sunday sessions for church attendance will be coordinated with chaplains and operated as a special opening or as 
contracted services.  