
5  –  10. 
 
Table 5  –  10 
Voluntary release from active duty of an obligated officer to attend school  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Submits REFRAD request to attend school (see fig 2  –  1). 
a. The request must include documentary evidence from an appropriate school official (Registrar or Dean 
of Admissions) that the officer has been accepted for enrollment, without qualification, commencing with a 
specific school term in a full -time resident course of instruction leading to an associate or higher degree. 
Without qualification means the officer is accepted for admission without being subject to any further ap-
proval by the school prior to entrance. Full-time resident course of instruction means the officer must take 
the minimum number of credit hours for the semester, quarter, or term that the school considers to be a 
full-time course of instruction.  
b. If the school is not currently listed in the Database of Accredited Postsecondary Institutions  and Pro-
grams, the statement of the school official must include whether the school has been determined by the 
Office of Education to be eligible for such listings. The statement will include the latest date by which the 
applicant must report to the school  in person for registration to meet the school’s requirement for attend-
ance, state the school’s specific accreditation status and the date the status was acquired, and must in-
clude the name of the accrediting agency or association granting such accreditati on. 
c. The officer must clearly establish that the specific school term for which he or she seeks enrollment is 
academically the most opportune time for the officer to begin or resume education. A statement to this ef-
fect is not sufficient. Specific reason s why further delay would cause personal hardship must be included.  
2 SACT  
BN S  –  1 Processes the request. Ensures counseling is accomplished as stated in paragraph 1  –  14. In addition to 
step 1 of this table, the request will include — 
a. A brief synopsis  of the counseling session.   

 Table 5  –  10 
Voluntary release from active duty of an obligated officer to attend school  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
b. Date officer reported on current tour of AD; type, effective date, and date of termination of current AD 
commitment.  
c. Whether officer is occupying a key position and if a replacement is required.  
d. Whether medical board or  PEB proceedings are pending or appropriate.  
e. Whether responsible for public property or funds.  
f. Recommendation for approval or disapproval and character of service. Include complete justification 
when approval is recommended and the officer has not fulfilled an ADSO. Also include justification for dis-
approvals.  
g. Statement that the officer is not under investigation or charges, awaiting result of trial, being considered 
for administrative elimination, AWOL, or under the control of civil authorities.  
h. Date officer departed CONUS or other area of residence for OCONUS assignment. Date of arrival 
OCONUS of dependents, whether at government or personal expense, whether logistical support was fur-
nished, and the rotation date, if applicable.  
3 BN S  –  1 
C&S Reviews the request, makes recommendation, as appropriate (if disapproval is recommended, provide 
justification).  
a. The request will be forwarded through channels to Commander, Human Resources Command 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400, or TJAG (DAJA  –  PT) or 
OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as applicable, for approval or disapproval. If approved, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will 
provide release instructions to MPD and forward a copy of the action to TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH 
(DACH  –  PER), as applicable.  
b. If the request is disapproved HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as ap-
plicable, it will be returned to the officer through channels.  
4 SACT (TC)  Receives separation instruction from the SAA or HRC, and separates the officer. Final release orders and 
forms will cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 
  

  
Figure 5  –  1.  Sample format for resignation  
 

  
 
Figure 5  –  2.  Sample format for request for discharge  
 
 

  
Figure 5  –  3.  Sample format for retiree recall without a break in service 
 
 
 

 Chapter 6  
Retirements  
Section I  
Overview  