
2
 –  29.  Child abuse prevention education  
a.  Child abuse and neglect prevention education training will be offered to parents of all children ages 4 through 12 
years enrolled in CDS programs.  
b.  Training will be generic in nature and will focus on defining child abuse and neglect, helping parents understand the 
importance’ s of a strong parent/CDS program partnership in the identification and prevention process, identifying the 
different types of abuse including the signs and causes of abuse, and explaining the measures CDS staff and FCC providers are taking to minimize the risk of abuse/neglect in CDS settings.  
c.  CDS personnel will coordinate all child abuse prevention education efforts with the FAPM and provide required 
reports according to AR 608
 –  18. 
d.  Training sessions will — 
(1)  Be provided on a quarterly basis, or  more frequently if needed on larger installations.  
(2)  Emphasize “protection of children from abuse is shared responsibility between Army and parents.”  
(3)  Be offered in a variety of locations accessible to majority of parents.   

 (4)  Be offered at a vari ety of times including evenings and lunch hours.  
e.  Parents will be notified in advance of upcoming classes, and general information about the content of the training 
will be included in parent handbooks.  
f.  Innovative approaches and strong command inter est and support will be necessary to reach large numbers of parents. 
Such initiatives may include — 
(1)  A command letter to parents.  
(2)  Direct participation of the commander in child abuse prevention activities.  
(3)  Incorporation of parent training sess ions with scheduled military events or command functions.  
(4)  Consideration of “allowing soldiers to attend” as a duty requirement to maximize attendance.  
g.  Child abuse prevention education is not authorized for children under six years of age.  
h.  Child abuse prevention education may be provided to children over six years of age with signed parental approval.  
(1)  Curriculum used must be selected jointly by the CDS coordinator and the FAP manager.  
(2)  Parents will be notified in advance, in writing, and requested to attend a preliminary information session.  
(3)  Curriculum will be developmentally appropriate for the age group.  
(4)  The approach will be positive in nature and will not unnecessarily frighten children.  
(5)  Curriculum focus must emphasiz e that children are not solely responsible for protecting themselves.  