
2  –  3.  Installation commanders  
a.  Installation commanders are  responsible for the management and operational supervision of all programs and ser-
vices within CDS delivery systems. They will — 
(1)  Ensure authorization and assignment of qualified installation personnel to provide effective CDS delivery systems 
to accom plish the mission.  
(2)  Ensure that CDS management personnel at the installation level are professionally qualified, that management per-
sonnel have child development related administrative program experience, and that personnel grade level ratings reflect level of responsibility and complexity of duty assignment.  
(3)  Identify installation CDS needs and resource requirements to MACOM.  
(4)  Provide installation CDS report data and resource requirements to MACOM and USACFSC ATTN: CFSC
 –  SF  –  CY, 
2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22331  –  0521.   

 (5)  Allocate resources and approve priorities for the allocation of resources within CDS to meet installation needs.  
(6)  Ensure that CDS personnel receive training as required.  
(7)  Ensure that all programs  and activities falling under CDS are monitored by the CDS coordinator and assessed for 
regulatory compliance.  
(8)  Approve installation nominees for participation on the Installation Child Care Evaluation Team (ICCET) and sup-
port ICCET recommendations to improve CDS programs.  
(9)  Ensure that installation agencies support CDS oversight and technical assistance requirements including actions 
needed for CDS personnel background clearances.  
b.  The CDS coordinator will — 
(1)  Supervise, monitor or function as a contracting officer representative for all activities, contractors, and individuals, 
providing child care on property controlled by the U.S. Army unless exempted by this regulation.  
(2)  Verify compliance with CDS program and facility standards on DA For m 4841  –  R (Child Development Services 
(CDS) Program/Facility Report) annually to MACOM and USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY).  
(3)  Report noncompliance with standards to the installation and MACOM commanders.  
(4)  Act as the point of contact (POC) for all issues a nd actions concerning CDS.  
(5)  Develop and execute budget documents to address short and long term CDS program needs.  
(6)  Review community demands for child care services through periodic needs assessments, surveys, and operational 
data studies; and esta blish a full range of systems to address requirements.  
(7)  Act as the final CDS authority for CDC, FCC, SPS, Training and Curriculum Specialist (TACS), administrative, 
and resourcing actions.  
(8)  Act as POC and assist Director of Engineering and Housing (DEH) in preparation of the DD Form 1391, a project 
development brochure (PDB), and economic analysis to adequately support and validate construction requirements.  
(9)  Coordinate the annual internal assessment conducted by the installation ICCET.  
(10)  Implement most current procedural guidance from HQDA.  
c.  The health consultant(s) as designated by Medical Department Activity (MEDDAC) or Medical Center (MEDCEN) 
(usually the health nurse for nutrition and health, and the environmental science officer for environmental and food sani-
tation) will—  
(1)  Consult on standing operating procedures (SOPs) developed by the CDS coordinator to meet program health re-
quirements.  
(2)  Monitor the health, nutritional, environmental, and food sanitation aspects of child de velopment programs in coor-
dination with the appropriate Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) staff on a monthly basis in centers; and conduct FCC 
home inspections as specified in paragraph  6  –  40. 
(3)  Act as POCs for all issues and actions regarding the overall health program within CDS.  
(4)  Verify compliance with CDS health standards on DA Form 4841  –  R annually.  
(5)  Coordinate meal planning and nutrition education aspects of CDS programs in collaboration with the MTF dietitia n. 
(6)  Provide and/or approve education and instructional content for training of CDS personnel in health related matters.  
(7)  Serve on the CDS ICCET.  
(8)  Coordinate veterinary services as required for pets involved with CDS.  
(9)  Ensure all foods are procured from approved sources as prescribed by AR 40  –  657. (Coordination with the installa-
tion veterinarian is required.)  
(10)  Confirm outbreaks of disease of public health significance occurring in CDS programs and assist CDS coordinator 
in reporting s uch cases ( para 2  –  20). 
(11)  Identify individuals (on or off –post) responsible for providing training and instruction on the administration of 
medications and caregiving health practices for children with special needs.  
d.  The MTF dietitian or designated professional will—  
(1)  Review all menus used in center –based settings and representative menus in FCC and SPS homes to ensure com-
pliance with USDA nutritional and meal component guidance.  
(2)  Serve on the CDS ICCET.  
(3)  Verify compliance with CDS nutrition standards on DA Form 4841  –  R annually.  
e.  The safety officer will — 
(1)  Consult on SOPs developed by the CDS coordinator.  
(2)  Monitor the safety of CDS facilities as a special hazard area and conduct required annual  and other inspections.  
(3)  Conduct initial and annual inspections of FCC homes.  
(4)  Verify compliance with CDS safety standards on DA Form 4841  –  R annually.  
(5)  Provide training to CDS personnel on safety related matters.  
(6)  Serve on the CDS ICCET.   

 (7)  Ensure CDCs and FCC homes are entered into installation hazard abatement programs as necessary.  
f.  The Director of Engineering and Housing (DEH) will — 
(1)  Develop and submit a CDS construction request (DD Form 1391) as needed.  
(2)  Coordinate all CD S construction and repair work with the CDS coordinator.  
(3)  Maintain and repair CDS facilities, installed equipment, and premises according to AEI criteria with appendix  G. 
(4)  Serve on the CDS ICCET.  
(5)  Participate  as an advisor on actions involving FCC in Government quarters.  
(6)  Work cooperatively with the CDS coordinator to identify and eliminate unauthorized child care occurring in Gov-
ernment housing.  
(7)  Act as an advisor on standards prescribing cleanliness and orderliness in housing units used for FCC homes.  
(8)  Adhere to the AEI criteria with appendix  C for renovation or addition projects.  
(9)  Conduct annual on– site structural inspection of each CDS facility.  
(10)  Verify compliance with CDS standards for facility structural/systems, administrative support, and child activity 
and related areas.  
g.  The fire marshal will — 
(1)  Conduct monthly inspections of CDS facilities and annual inspections of FCC homes.  
(2)  Consult on SOPs developed by the CDS coordinator to meet program fire prevention requirements.  
(3)  Verify compliance with CDS fire prevention standards on DA Form 4841  –  R annually.  
(4)  Serve on the CDS ICCET.  
h.  The staff judge advocate will provide guidance o n CDS legal matters including liability issues and the application of 
State, local, and host nation laws to program operations.  
i.  The provost marshal will — 
(1)  Monitor the security of CDS facilities.  
(2)  Process local civilian law records check.  
(3)  File DD Form 1731 (Serious Incident Report) and consult with CDS coordinator as needed.  
(4)  Address situations involving children left in CDCs, FCC homes, or SPS programs after closing time; and release of 
children under circumstances where children’s saf ety or well being is in question.  
j.  The installation Criminal Investigation Division (CID) commander will — 
(1)  Initiate investigations of allegations of child abuse occurring in CDS delivery systems.  
(2)  Process Crime Records Center checks.  
(3)  Advise  the CDS coordinator of any child abuse or other criminal allegations against any CDS employee or FCC 
provider to allow appropriate management decisions to protect the safety and well being of children in care.  
k.  The Civilian Personnel Officer will — 
(1)  Obtain a signed release of information for background clearances checks on all applicants for CDS employment.  
(2)  Initiate and follow -up on the following:  
(a)  National Agency Checks (NAC or NACI) for all CDS nonappropriated fund and appropriated fund em ployees.  
(b)  Criminal Investigation Division (CID) background information/clearance checks including the Defense Central In-
vestigation Index (DCII).  
(c)  Military Police background information records checks.  
(d)  Local civilian law enforcement agency checks.  
(3)  Advise the CDS coordinator on management actions involving employees involved in suspected child maltreatment 
cases.  
(4)  Provide results of checks and references to the Center’s program director.  
(5)  Ensure CDS employees are hired under appropr iate grades using standard position descriptions.  
(6)  Ensure CDS employees can receive CPO sponsored training.  
(7)  Ensure a qualified pool of applicants for CDS positions.  
(8)  Provide timely response to recruitment actions necessary to meet child/staff ratios and management oversight re-
sponsibilities.  
(9)  Serve on the CDS ICCET.  
l.  The Alcohol and Drug Prevention Control (ADCO) Program manager will screen records involving CDS employees, 
CDS volunteers, FCC applicants, and FCC family members for drug a nd substance abuse, as permitted pursuant to AR 
600  –  85, chapter  6. 
m.  The Family Advocacy Program Manager (FAPM) will — 
(1)  Work with the chairperson, Family Advocacy Case Management Team (FACMT) and FACMT members to develop 
an installation SOP that designates a reporting point of contact (RPOC) and procedures for addressing all child abuse  

 allegations in CDS settings; or identification of any familial child abuse situation involving a child receiving child care 
services.  
(2)  Provide in -service training on the recognition and reporting of child abuse and neglect in both familial and institu-
tional settings.  
(3)  Coordinate with CDS to provide child abuse prevention training for parents with children enrolled in CDS programs.  
(4)  Coordinate on all CDS SOPs involving child abuse or neglect.  
(5)  Serve on the CDS ICCET.  
(6)  Review and make recommendations on any statement about ch ild abuse and neglect in parent and employee hand-
books.  
n.  The Public Affairs Officer (PAO) will — 
(1)  Handle press releases and publicize special events involving CDS operations (e.g., Month of the Military Child, 
opening of a new facility).  
(2)  Inform USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY) through the MACOM of all anticipated or actual media coverage concerning 
CDS operations for press or television that has the potential for national release.  
(3)  Provide copies of newspaper clippings of adverse publicity concerning  child abuse allegations in CDS settings 
through the MACOM to the Commander, USACFSC, ATTN: CFSC  –  SF  –  CY, 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 
22331  –  0521.  
o.  The chairperson, FACMT will process requests for Central Registry Background Checks for CDS  employees, FCC 
provider applicants, FCC family members, and CDS volunteers.  
Section II  
Assessment and Compliance  