
4  –  1.  Overview  
a.  This chapter prescribes the rules and steps for eliminating officers for substandard performance of duty, mis-
conduct, moral or professional dereliction, and in the interests of national security.  
b.  An officer is permitted to serve in the Army because of the special trust and confidence the President and the 
nation have placed in the officer’s patriotism, valor, fidelity, and competence. An officer is expected to display re-
sponsibility commensurate to this special trust and confidence and to act with the highest integrity at all times. How-
ever, an officer who will not or cannot maintain those standards will be separated.  
c.  Every officer deserves a fair chance to demonstrate their capabilities. When an officer shows ineffective tenden-
cies (especially if the officer is inexperienced), when practicable, he or she will be given another chance under another 
commander. The officer ’s ineffectiveness will be systematically recorded in documents that specify each period cov-
ered, duties observed, and defects noted. Recommendations for elimination action will not be based on generalities 
and vague impressions. It is necessary to documen t, in writing, the precise reasons an officer is considered ineffective.  
d.  A USAR or ARNG officer must hold, or be capable of holding, a security clearance of at least secret. An RA 
officer must hold a security clearance of at least secret. This requirem ent may not be waived. The final denial or 
revocation of an officer’s Secret security clearance by appropriate authorities acting pursuant to DODI 5200.02 and 
AR 380  –  67 requires the discharge of that officer from the service. An officer whose security cl earance has been 
withdrawn or withheld due to unfavorable information regarding loyalty, subversion, or security violations may be 
processed for involuntary separation under AR 380  –  67; however, the officer should first be considered for discharge 
under t his regulation. The administrative procedures prescribed in AR 380  –  67, will be followed until the case is re-
ferred to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). 
e.  Commanders, and/or initiating officials designated in paragraph  4–18a of this regulation, will initiate elimination 
action of any officer convicted of a sex offense, as defined in 34 USC 20911or AR 27  –  10, whose conviction did not 
result in a dismissal. This applies to all officers regardless of when the conviction for a s ex offense occurred, except 
when the officer has already been subject to an elimination action and has been retained.  
Note.  Officers who are deployed to a nonpermitted location OCONUS in any status (temporary duty (TDY)/temporary 
change of station (TCS)) w ill immediately be returned to their parent organization. The only permitted OCONUS 
locations are Hawaii, Alaska, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the territories or possessions of the United States. 
Command responsibility to reassign or redeploy an off icer takes precedence over immediate initiation of elimination 
action. Officers convicted of a sex offense, as defined in 34 USC 20911 or AR 27  –  10 will first be reassigned or 
redeployed to a CONUS or permitted OCONUS location. The receiving commander wil l subsequently ensure the 
initiation of elimination action.  
f.  Officers with a subsequent alcohol or drug- related incident of misconduct at any time during the 12 -month period 
following successful completion of the Army Substance Abuse Program or during t he 12 -month period following 
removal from the program, for any reason, will be recommended for elimination as an alcohol or drug abuse rehabil-
itation failure. This expanded period, however, does not prevent separation for other reasons authorized within th is 
chapter. Except for officers referred to a GCM, commanders will recommend officers for elimination who — 
(1)  Are identified as illegal drug abusers as defined in AR 600  –  85. 
(2)  Are involved in two serious incidents of alcohol -related misconduct withi n a 12- month period. As defined in 
AR 600  –  85, a serious incident of alcohol -related misconduct is any offense of a civil or military nature that is punish-
able under the UCMJ by confinement for a term exceeding 1 year.  
(3)  Are involved in illegal traffic king, distribution, possession, use, or sale of illegal drugs.  
(4)  Tested positive for illegal drugs a second time during their career.  
(5)  Are convicted of driving while intoxicated OR driving under the influence a second time during his or her 
career.  
g.  Commanders will counsel and review all separation actions in accordance with paragraphs 1 –35a and 1–35b.  