
3  –  12.  CDS management personnel  
CDS programs will be established and maintained at comparable levels Army –wide, with professional oversight provided 
by a CDS core management team to ensure quality assurance and a basic level of APF personnel support at every ins talla-
tion (see para 3  –  2). On each installation at least one of the members of the CDS management team (CDS coordinator, 
system/program director, outreach worker, TACS, program operations specialist) will meet the professiona l qualifications 
of the National Academy of Early Childhood Programs’ Early Childhood Specialist.  
a.  CDS coordinator.   A professional CDS coordinator will be provided to coordinate and manage all CDS delivery 
systems at each installation. CDS coordinator responsibilities include — 
(1)  Applying professional knowledge of child development principles to interpret CDS philosophy and policy in a 
manner that ensures developmental programming for all CDS operations.  
(2)  Coordinating and monitoring the CDC, FCC, and SPS delivery systems including overall supervision of individual 
CDS programs and services within systems.  
(3)  Ensuring compliance of all installation CDS systems with regulatory requirements.  
(4)  Establishing effective working relationships with command, staff, agencies, and military and local civilian profes-
sional counterparts.   

 (5)  Ensuring that unit commanders, their staff, and all military personnel and their families supported by the installation 
are aware of services offered.  
(6)  Developing installation policies and approving SOPs for CDS delivery systems.  
(7)  Supervising the directors of CDS delivery systems, the TACS, the food service manager, the program operations 
specialist, the CDS administrative clerk, and monitoring the quality of d irect services provided.  
(8)  Coordinating management of funds and resources to include developing annual budget for all CDS delivery systems.  
(9)  Coordinating and approving initiation, organization, and content of CDS delivery systems.  
(10)  Initiating, reviewing, and approving personnel actions for CDS systems including recruitment, selection, evalua-
tion, and dismissals.  
(11)  Monitoring staff training programs implemented by TACS and program directors to ensure overall CDS policy 
and regulatory requirem ents are met and ensuring all TACS are used as trainers focusing on “hands on” training.  
(12)  Collecting and analyzing data to determine adequacy and effectiveness of all CDS systems.  
(13)  Assessing CDS facilities requirements and, in conjunction with th e facilities engineer, developing a master plan 
for programming facilities based on projected CDS requirements.  
(14)  Developing a 5 –year plan for CDS according to AR 215  –  1. 
(15)  Establishing and monitoring a parent advisory/support group to ensure pare ntal input in developing policies, SOPs 
for CDS delivery systems and the oversight process.  
b.  Program operations specialist.   A program operations specialist may be provided at large installations by a MACOM 
survey team. The program operations specialist  will have staff responsibility for program evaluation reports, oversight of 
budget execution/financial management issues, and routine personnel issues. Responsibilities include but are not limited 
to— 
(1)  Compiling annual reports for submission to the MA COM.  
(2)  Consolidating APF annual operating budget from program director input.  
(3)  Monitoring CDS automation software installation, implementation, and use.  
(4)  Preparing CDS briefings.  
(5)  Monitoring management decision package (MDEP) execution.  
(6)  Reviewing management information system (MIS) preparation and researching discrepancies.  
(7)  Conducting patron satisfaction surveys and analyzing results.  
(8)  Conducting a semi –annual fee study and making recommendations to CDS coordinator.  
(9)  Being CDS POC for construction issues including facility upgrade status reports, documentation for MCA projects, 
and monitoring construction of new facility.  
(10)  Preparing annual NAF budget and ensuring integration of APF and NAF budgets. Monitoring NAF budget  execu-
tion and preparing variance reports as required.  
(11)  Preparing and monitoring NAF personnel requirements document (PRD) (AR 215  –  1). 
(12)  Initiating and validating procurement requests to support all CDS delivery system.  
(13)  Monitoring TDA subm issions and coordinating Schedule X preparation.  
c.  TACS.   TACS are the designated trainers for the CDS staff and FCC providers. The position requires that they should 
have professional expertise in early childhood education with a minimum of a bachelors degree in early childhood educa-
tion, child development, or a related field such as primary education or home economics. The TACS must not be assigned 
tasks or detailed to other management positions if such assignments impact on the TACS’ ability to fulfill the training 
responsibilities outlined in the MCCA. TACSs will be provided to ensure quality assurance and manage training require-ments to minimize the risk of child abuse. TACS personnel will work under the direct supervision of the CDS coordinator and i n conjunction with the program director(s) to which they are assigned. When there are multiple TACS positions, one 
may be assigned supervisory responsibilities. TACS personnel will not have supervisory responsibilities for caregiving 
employees, replace or substitute for CDC caregiving personnel when they are absent, or be counted in adult/child ratios. 
TACS personnel will be assigned by program type or age -specific categories. TACS personnel may be assigned by special 
areas only in those situations when the re are multiple TACS positions. TACS personnel should spend the majority of time 
(60
 –  75 percent) in child activity rooms/modules and with FCC providers, training and demonstrating caregiving tech-
niques. TACS time spent on administrative duties (other tha n maintaining training records) should be limited. Adminis-
trative clerical support will be provided for TACS personnel to limit the amount of time spent on administrative duties. 
TACS responsibilities include — 
(1)  Ensuring quality assurance in program ope rations to minimize the risk of child abuse occurring in CDS program 
operations.  
(2)  Initiating, developing, and conducting training workshops to meet training requirements.  
(3)  Coordinating and integrating existing training opportunities for caregiving employees.   

 (4)  Administering and maintaining the Individual Education Plan (IDP) for assigned direct service personnel in coor-
dination with the program director.  
(5)  Serving as child development associate (CDA) advisor and integrating IDP and CDA require ments.  
(6)  Coordinating and validating training opportunities available from outside sources and integrating them into IDPs.  
(7)  Providing technical assistance on training and training resources available to other proponents responsible for CDS 
training components.  
(8)  Assisting program director in assessing CDC programs using an environmental rating scale. Training staff on rating 
scale implementation and reviewing corrective action plans to remedy deficient areas. Monitoring continued progress in 
improving environment and program quality.  
(9)  Assisting FCC director in assessing FCC homes using an environmental rating scale. Training staff on rating scale 
implementation and reviewing corrective action plans to remedy deficient areas. Monitoring con tinued progress in im-
proving environment and program quality.  
(10)  Overseeing developmental programming quality through observation and role modeling in child activity areas; 
demonstrating appropriate use of space, time, equipment, materials, and activiti es to support developmental programming; 
monitoring caregiving employees/child interactions, and supporting staff in developing curriculum based on sound child 
development principles.  
(11)  Serving as the developmental program proponent POC for the ICCET r eview of assigned program.  
(12)  Providing consultation to program director on selection of age –appropriate toys and materials.  
(13)  Maintaining “state –of–the–art” professional knowledge of curriculum development, materials and equipment, and 
instructiona l techniques for appropriate program assignment.  
(14)  Assisting management staff in the development and implementation of parent education programs.  
(15)  Giving advice to the program director on the performance of child care employees and FCC/SPS provide rs. 
d.  Food service manager.   A food service manager will be provided at large and very large installations to develop and 
implement a CDS food service program for all delivery systems. Responsibilities include — 
(1)  Planning menus that meet USDA requirem ents for all aspects of the programs and populations served.  
(2)  Providing for purchases, delivery, storage, and inventory of food items and food service supplies and equipment.  
(3)  Ensuring food service procedures are economical and efficient.  
(4)  Prov iding budget input to include manpower, supplies, equipment, and food expenditures required for operation of 
the food program.  
(5)  Collecting and maintaining data required to support resource allocations to meet USDA requirements.  
(6)  Ensuring center –based food service, health and sanitation procedures are in compliance with appropriate food han-
dling, preparation, and service as requested by TB MED 530.  
(7)  Providing nutrition training to CDS systems’ staff and parents. Ensuring that all CDS food service  workers/ helpers 
receive sanitation training at the time of hire.  
(8)  Assisting caregiving employees in planning and participating in child program activities related to food preparation 
and nutrition education.  
(9)  Ensuring CDS delivery systems are in compliance with food and nutrition standards.  
(10)  Initiating and maintaining CDS participation in the USDA CACFP (CONUS only).  
e.  Center/program directors.   An on– site director will implement and manage each separately located CDS facility 
regardless of  size. Subsequent program directors will be required when the average daily attendance (ADA) of any program 
(full–day, part –day, or hourly) reaches 100 or more children. The center director will manage the overall daily operations 
and the maintenance of facility; and supervise other program directors in the center. Program director responsibilities 
include — 
(1)  Applying professional knowledge of child development principles to implement CDS policies in a manner that 
ensures developmental programming for se rvices offered within the program.  
(2)  Carrying out existing procedures, policies, and regulatory requirements.  
(3)  Developing cost efficient and effective operational procedures.  
(4)  Identifying program resource requirements and providing CDS budget input to include manpower, supplies and 
equipment, and expenditures required for program and facility operation and maintenance.  
(5)  Ensuring that the program complies with regulations governing the use of APF and NAF.  
(6)  Identifying personnel requirements and initiating all required personnel actions to include recruitment, hiring, place-
ment, promotions, awards, evaluations, and dismissals.  
(7)  Planning, coordinating, and supervising the activities of direct care and support personnel.  
(8)  Identifying personnel training needs and ensuring appropriate training is provided to inservice staff to ensure spe-
cific program requirements can be implemented.  
(9)  Using CDS volunteers in a manner that recognizes individual capabilities and expertise.   

 (10)  Collecting data and maintaining accurate and up –to–date records.  
(11)  Providing program –generated statistical data for planning and reporting purposes.  
f.  Assistant program director(s).   Assistant program director(s) will be provided in CDC programs w ith an ADA in 
excess of 150 children and/or where operating hours are in excess of 40 hours per week. Responsibilities will include 
assisting and substituting for the program director.  
g.  FCC director.   An FCC director will implement and manage the FCC sy stem. FCC director responsibilities include — 
(1)  Applying professional knowledge of child development principles to implement CDS policies in a manner that 
ensures developmental programming practices within the FCC system.  
(2)  Establishing FCC certification procedures within regulatory guidance.  
(3)  Carrying out existing procedures, policies, and regulations.  
(4)  Developing economical and efficient operating procedures.  
(5)  Identifying program resource requirements and providing CDS budget input to inc lude manpower, supplies, equip-
ment, and expenditures required for program operation.  
(6)  Providing outreach services including a toy/equipment lending library to FCC providers.  
(7)  Identifying FCC provider training needs and ensuring appropriate inservic e training is provided to ensure FCC 
program requirements can be implemented.  
(8)  Hiring, training, and supervising outreach workers and support staff.  
(9)  Using CDS volunteers in a manner that recognizes individual capabilities and expertise.  
(10)  Collecting data and maintaining accurate and up –to–date records.  
(11)  Providing program –generated statistical data for planning and reporting purposes.  
(12)  Implementing monitoring procedures for FCC homes to ensure regulatory compliance.  
h.  FCC outreac h worker.   An FCC outreach worker will be provided in an FCC system that is comprised of more than 
30 FCC homes. Responsibilities will include monitoring and training; and outreach services with each FCC outreach 
worker having a caseload of no more than 40 homes. FCC outreach workers will work under the direct supervision of the 
FCC director.  
i.  SPS director.   An SPS director will implement and manage the SPS system. On small installations where an SPS 
director position is not authorized, the CDS coordinat or should dual function in the position rather than dual function as 
the center director or FCC director. The FCC director may dual function as the SPS director when the total number of 
installation FCC homes is 15 or less. SPS director responsibilities in clude — 
(1)  Applying professional knowledge of child development principles to implement CDS policies in a manner which 
ensures developmental programming practices within the SPS system.  
(2)  Supervising the SAS Program when CDS is the proponent agency.  
(3)  Providing oversight and technical assistance for options to include short term alternative child care, child care ser-
vices for civilian employees, SPS homes, volunteer care in unit settings, CDS baby -sitting training and referral, parent co –
ops, Foster Grandparent program, contracted services, private organization child care, sick child care, special interest pro-
grams sponsored by other Army activities.  
(4)  Monitoring SPS options to ensure regulatory compliance.  
(5)  Identifying program resource require ments and providing CDS budget input to include manpower, supplies and 
equipment, and expenditures required for program and facility operations and maintenance.  
(6)  Identifying SPS personnel training needs and providing specific training to ensure SPS requirements are imple-
mented.  
(7)  Developing cost efficient and effective operational procedures.  
(8)  Developing, monitoring and implementing CDS plans in support of mobilization.  
(9)  Managing the recruitment, training, and referral of CDS volunteers.  
(10)  Coordinating parent education services including CDS newsletters for all CDS delivery systems.  
(11)  Managing implementation of alternative hourly care options (i.e., short term alternative child care (STACC) and 
volunteer child care in unit settings (VCCUS)).  
(12)  Establishing child care referral services to assist in child placement both on the installation and as part of an Army –
wide service.  
(13)  Coordinating CDS participation in Army –wide special events (i.e., Month of the Military Child, Army F amily 
Week).  
(14)  Providing program –generated statistical data for planning and reporting purposes.  
(15)  Implementing and maintaining the CDS Central Enrollment Registry to refer and place children in appropriate 
installation CDS programs.  
(16)  Maintaining a centralized waiting list for all CDS delivery systems to track and monitor child placements and 
vacancies.   

 (17)  Preparing all CDS statements of work necessary for initiating and maintaining contract child care services.  
(18)  Assisting the CDS coordinator in monitoring delivery of all contract services.  
(19)  Monitoring family care plans.  
j.  SAS coordinator.   The SAS program coordinator will be provided to coordinate and manage all SAS operations at 
each installation. SAS program coordinator  responsibilities include — 
(1)  Applying professional knowledge of child development principles to interpret SAS policy in a manner that ensures 
developmental programming for all SAS operations.  
(2)  Recommending a master plan for SAS programs based on needs assessment, facility availability, and existing pro-
grams.  
(3)  Ensuring compliance of all installation SAS programs with regulatory requirements.  
(4)  Applying knowledge of budget processes and techniques sufficient to develop budget input and monitor program 
expenditures.  
(5)  Applying knowledge of personnel policies and procedures sufficient to supervise staff, initiate, review, and approve 
personnel actions.  
(6)  Applying knowledge of staff training requirements in SAS subject matter areas and operati onal procedures.  
(7)  Identifying, implementing, and monitoring staff training needs.  
(8)  Coordinating SAS program food service operations, to include policies and procedures for food preparation, service, 
and storage.  
(9)  Collecting and analyzing data t o determine adequacy and effectiveness of all SAS programs.  
(10)  Implementing procedures to ensure that SAS programs comply with program standards; and to monitor the quality 
of direct services and facility conditions.  
(11)  Establishing performance stand ards and evaluating direct service personnel and when applicable, SAS program 
specialists.  
(12)  Developing a plan for recruiting, training and referring CDS volunteers in a manner that recognizes individual 
capabilities and expertise.  
(13)  Establishing and maintaining effective working relationships with command, proponents, local civilian counter-
parts, staff, and parents.  
(14)  Evaluating all components of SAS programs to include program quality and operations, program staff, CDS vol-
unteer and patron/us er levels of satisfaction.  