

 1  –  25.  Referral for physical disability evaluation  
If a commissioned or warrant officer is being processed for REFRAD, separation, or retirement or has been referred 
for elimination action, and the officer is issued a DA Form 3349 (Physical Profile) with a P3/P4 in at least one of the 
profile serial factors for a medical condition(s) that meet medical retention standards of AR 40  –  501, the officer will 
be process ed as follows:  
a.  A commissioned or warrant officer under investigation for an offense chargeable under the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice (UCMJ) that could result in dismissal or punitive discharge may not be referred for or continue disa-
bility process ing unless:  
(1)  The investigation ends without charges.  
(2)  The commander exercising proper court -martial jurisdiction dismisses the charges.  
(3)  The commander exercising proper court -martial jurisdiction refers the charge for trial to a court- martial that 
cannot adjudge such a sentence.  
b.  When a commissioned or warrant officer, as applicable, is being processed for one of the actions listed in para-
graphs 1–25b(1) through 1–25b(4), the officer will be processed in accordance with the provisions of this regulation 
and through the Medical Evaluation Board (MEB)/PEB system pursuant to AR 635  –  40. If the result of the physical 
disability evaluation is a finding of physical fitness, the Army Physical Disability Agency will approve the findings 
for SECARMY and forward the proceedings to Commander, Human Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 
Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400, to be processed with the other action. If a physical disability 
evaluation results in a finding of physical unfitness, both actions will be forwarded by HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), to 
SECARMY or designee for determination of appropriate disposition.  
(1)  Referral to the DAADB except when the DAADB is co nvened as a result of an imposed reduction in force.  
(2)  Involuntary REFRAD due to civil conviction or moral turpitude.  
(3)  Referral for elimination under chapter  4 of this regulation.  
(4)  Request for separation, resig nation, or retirement in lieu of elimination.  
Note.  Generally, officers approved to resign for the good of the Service in lieu of trial by court -martial are ineligible 
for referral to the MEB and PEB. However, if the officer was referred to the MEB prior to approval of the resignation, 
the MEB and/or PEB must be completed and then action may be taken on the resignation request; Officers pending 
administrative elimination are normally dual processed for the elimination action and completion of the Disabilit y 
Evaluation System. For dual processing to occur, referral to the MEB must occur before the date the DASA (RB) 
approves the officer’s elimination pursuant to AR 635  –  40. 
c.  When a physical disability evaluation of an officer processed for separation or retirement for the reasons indi-
cated in paragraphs 1 –25b(1) through 1–25b(4) results in a finding of unfitness and a recommendation that the officer 
be placed on the temporary disability  retirement list (TDRL), SECARMY or designee may direct that the officer be 
placed on the TDRL with the provision that if the officer is later removed in due course from the TDRL for disability 
separation or retirement, the officer is to be retired, but if  the officer is later removed in due course from the TDRL 
because he is found fit, the officer is to be separated from the service, effective on the date of the officer’s removal 
from the TDRL with a specified characterization of discharge. As in the case of an officer processed for separation or 
retirement for the reasons indicated in paragraphs 1 –25b(1) through 1–25b(4) whose physical disability evaluation 
results in a finding of unfitness and a recommendation that the officer be separated or permanently retired, SECARMY 
or designee may direct that either the separation or retirement action under this regulation or the disability action take 
precedence.  
d.  When an officer is processed f or separation or retirement for reasons other than those indicated in paragraphs 
1–25b(1) through 1–25b(4), physical disability takes precedence if the officer is retained with consent. The procedures 
in paragraph  1  –  24 will be followed.  
e.  Officers previously determined physically unfit and continued on AD under AR 635  –  40 must be referred for 
disability evaluations at final retirement or separation.  