
5  –  12.  Standing operating procedures (SOPs)  
SOPs will be developed to ensure developmentally appropriate and cost effective management of all programs within the 
CDC system. SOPs will be available as applicable to patrons, center personnel, and command representatives. Center 
perso nnel will receive direct training on SOP content as appropriate. The following subjects will be covered in locally 
developed SOPs.  
a.  Resource management to include facilities, equipment, personnel and training for CDC programs.  
b.  Program guidance to include interpretation of policies, regulations, and procedures required for the efficient opera-
tion and management of each program service.  
c.  Compliance with standards to include criteria for facilities, safety, fire, nutrition, health, and developmental program-
ming.  
d.  Prevention, response to, and identification and reporting of child abuse, including allegations within CDC settings.  
e.  CDC security procedures to include—  
(1)  Guidelines for facility access, which ensure an “open door” policy for parents at all times, yet monitor and control 
access to the center and children.  
(2)  Procedures for locking the facility and use of a doorbell when the center is open after 2000 hours.  
(3)  Key control.  
(4)  Field trip sign in and out procedures such as — 
(a)  Classroom notification to center management and front desk personnel.  
(b)  Individual child permission slips signed by parent for each specific trip.  
f.  Program operations to include — 
(1)  Developmental program and family style meal service implement ation.  
(2)  Substitutes or additional caregiving employees to maintain staffing ratios.  
(3)  Health procedures including pets and plants.  
(4)  Public/patron relations.  
(5)  Approved basic care items.  
g.  Administrative procedures to include — 
(1)  Financial  management including cash controls and fee structure review.  
(2)  Recordkeeping and reporting including data collection and maintenance.  
(3)  Food service operations to include enrollment in the USDA CACFP, if applicable.  
(4)  Janitorial and maintenance s ervice.  
h.  Contingency plans to include a written policy with concurrence from the medical, fire, and safety authorities for 
disaster planning and responding to emergencies, including fire, serious injury, and ingestion of poison. The plan will 
include — 
(1)  Building evacuation procedures for all age groups.  
(2)  First Aid/CPR procedures.  
(3)  Listing of emergency phone numbers (fire department, medical treatment facility, military police, community health 
nurse, Family Advocacy Reporting Point of Contact, Army Community Services, and poison control center).  
(4)  Procedures to be followed in case of illness or other emergencies (e.g., child left at center after hours), including 
transportation options and notification of parents or appropriate authorities.  
i.  Reporting of outbreaks of diseases according to paragraphs  2–20b and 2–21b. 