
5
 –  6.  CDC food service pro gram  
a.  CDC food service practices.  
(1)  All food and labor costs associated with the food service program will be maintained as separate identifiable data. 
A separate NAF accounting code established for this purpose will be used.  
(2)  The CDC fee structure will include meal costs. No separate fees will be charged for meals.  
(3)  Menus will be preplanned with seasonal cycle menus recommended. Meal component substitutions will be equiva-
lent and will be approved by the CDC director and food service ma nager.  
(4)  All menus will be pre –costed and compared with actual costs. Meal production records will be completed daily.  
(5)  A separate inventory of food purchased will be maintained.  
(6)  Troop issue supply should be used to economically procure food it ems in institutional quantities.  
b.  Family style meal service.  
(1)  Centralized separate dining rooms are not permitted in CDC programs. Toddlers, preschool –age and school –age 
children will be served family style within their activity room.  
(a)  Chairs an d tables used for art and manipulative activities will double function for eating purposes. Combination 
hard surface and carpeted flooring will be provided to support family style meal service.  
(b)  A separate room accommodating no more than the maximum child age group size (at any one time) may be used 
for feeding children if this room double functions for other regularly scheduled daily activities.  
(c)  Eating areas in infant and toddler activity room/modules will not be adjacent to the diaper changing unit.  
(2)  The daily feedback sheet will include a record of infants’ intake of formula and any other eating habits. This record 
will be available on a daily basis to parents.  
(3)  When in the presence of children, adults may not drink beverages or eat foo ds other than those provided by the 
center for meals and snacks.  
c.  Food preparation and sanitation.  
(1)  All food to be consumed by CDC children will be prepared using methods designed to conserve nutritional value, 
flavor and appearance.  
(2)  A sufficie nt quantity of foods will be prepared to allow children second helpings.  
(3)  Food provided by CDC parents must be Dated and labeled with the child’s full name, and refrigerated as applicable. 
Feeding instructions should be provided. Baby food provided by parents must be in unopened jars or containers.  
(4)  Baby food will be transferred from jars to an unbreakable dish before being served to infants. Individual spoons and 
dishes must be used for each infant.  
(5)  Infant formula may be provided by parents or  ready –to–feed infant formula may be purchased by the CDC and 
poured into bottles provided by parents. Formula provided by the CDC will conform to type required in infant’s individual feeding plan. Infant formula will be provided in bottles containing a si ngle serving. Unused portions of bottles will be 
discarded. An emergency supply of ready –to–feed commercial formula as required by infants’ feeding plans will be main-
tained.  
(6)  Infant formula bottles and baby food in jars will not be heated in microwave ovens.  
(7)  When age appropriate, whole milk may be provided to infants and toddlers in bottles as part of the CDC food service 
program. Parents are responsible for providing clean bottles daily for each feeding consumed.  
(8)  All food preparation, storage , and transportation will be in accordance with TB Med 530.   

 (9)  Tables will be washed and sanitized before and after meals.  
(10)  Dishwashing machines will be National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) approved. Dishes and utensils must be san-
itized in accordan ce with TB Med 530.  
(11)  CDCs not using dishwashing machines will clean and sanitize using a three –compartment sink, supplied with hot 
and cold running water and a drainboard for dishwashing, rinsing, sanitizing, and air drying.  
(12)  Milk may be purchase d in bulk containers with the following restrictions:  
(a)  Milk is transferred from bulk milk dispensers, gallon containers, or other approved commercial storage devices/ 
containers to small serving pitchers, covered, and then immediately transported to individual activity rooms.  
(b)  All milk remaining in serving pitchers at the end of the meal is discarded.  
(c)  Serving pitchers are not used as storage containers and are designed to allow adequate cleaning/sanitizing between 
use. 
(13)  Children will onl y be permitted in the kitchen when closely supervised as part of a developmental cooking activity.  
(14)  All foods to be consumed by children must be procured from approved sources as prescribed by AR 40  –  657. 
d.  USDA CACFP.   All eligible installation CDC systems will enroll in the USDA CACFP in accordance with paragraph  