
4  –  4.  Limitations  
a.  Acquittal or not -guilty findings in military or civilian criminal proceedings, convictions, or punishment in ac-
cordance with UCMJ, Art. 15 do not preclude an administrative discharge action.  
b.  Except as provided in paragraph  4–4d, no officer will be considered for elimination for reasons stated in para-
graph 4  –  2 because of conduct that has been the subject of administrative elimination proceedings that res ulted in final 
determination that the officer should be retained in the Service. An officer will be considered to have been the subject 
of elimination proceedings only if allegations against the officer were acted on by a Board of Inquiry convened under 
this chapter.  
c.  The limitations set forth in paragraph  4–4b are not applicable when — 
(1)  Substantial new evidence is discovered that was not known at the time of the original proceedings despite the 
exercise of due diligence and that would probably produce a result significantly less favorable for the officer at a new 
hearing.  
(2)  Subsequent conduct by the officer warrants considering him or her for discharge. Such conduct need not inde-
pendently justify the member’s eliminat ion but must be sufficiently serious to raise a substantial question as to the 
officer’s potential for further useful military service. However, this exception does not permit further consideration of 
conduct of which the officer has been absolved in a pri or final factual determination based on the merits by a judicial 
body.  
(3)  An express exemption has been granted by HRC, in writing, upon a determination that administrative separation 
should be effected because of the unusual circumstances of the case.  
d.  An officer who has been considered for elimination and retained on AD may again be required to show cause 
for retention under the following circumstances:  
(1)  An officer may be again considered for elimination because of lack of proficiency or recurren t misconduct 
subsequent to the earlier consideration.  
(2)  An officer may be again considered for elimination because of misconduct that occurred prior to that alleged 
in the earlier proceedings but that was not sooner discovered despite the exercise of du e diligence.  
(3)  An officer who has been considered for elimination for substandard performance of duty and retained may 
again be considered for elimination for substandard performance of duty at any time 1 year after the prior case has 
been closed.  
(4)  An officer may be considered for elimination for misconduct, moral or professional dereliction, or in the interest 
of national security at any time subsequent to the closing of the prior case that resulted in the officer’s retention on 
AD. However, an offi cer may not again be required to show cause for retention on AD solely because of conduct that 
was the subject of the previous proceedings, unless the findings and recommendations of the Board of Inquiry, the 
Board of Review, or the Ad Hoc Review Board, th at considered the case are determined to have been obtained by 
fraud or collusion. The grounds for elimination in the earlier case may be joined with new grounds in the latter case, 
provided the earlier elimination proceedings does not include a factual determination specifically absolving the mem-
ber of the allegations then under consideration. If the grounds for elimination in the earlier proceedings are joined, the 
additional grounds considered in the subsequent proceedings need not independently justify the member’s discharge 
but must be sufficiently serious to raise a substantial question as to the member’s potential for further useful military 
service.  
e.  Punishment resulting from trial by court -martial or under the provisions of UCMJ, Art. 15, for mis conduct and 
subsequent use of this fact in support of elimination under this regulation do not constitute double jeopardy.  