
6  –  18.  Provider transfer  
a.  An FCC provider who moves from one installation to another may request in writing that the IDP and FCC certifi-
cation be forwarded by mail to the receiving installation. The FCC director at the sending installation will sign and date each document stating that the provider left the installation in good standing.  
b.  FCC providers may take a photo copy of tra ining records to the next installation to expedite application procedures 
at the new site, however the FCC provider may not receive certification based on previous training until the IDP and FCC 
certification file are received through the mail at the recei ving installation.  
c.  The following will apply to all FCC providers who transfer to a new installation and have received either full or 
provisional certification at another installation.  
(1)  All FCC providers will receive a minimum of 8 hours of orientation training to familiarize them with local require-
ments at the new installation to include child abuse since state or host nation reporting requirements vary. Orientation 
training hours will not transfer from one installation to another.  
(2)  All FCC prov iders will update or complete a new DA Form 5219
 –  R. 
d.  A complete background check will be completed if more than 1 year has elapsed since the individuals last provided 
care within a FCC system. Otherwise, the check will be limited to a check of the Arm y Family Advocacy Program Central 
Registry and the Army Crime Records Center in Baltimore, MD.  
e.  Fire, health, and safety inspections will be done at the new housing unit.  
f.  The FCC provider must complete new contingency plans and back– up plans.  
g.  FCC management personnel at the receiving installation will review the FCC provider’s training records and related 
documents to evaluate current skill level. FCC management personnel may require an FCC provider to repeat any training classes or be placed in a provisional status even though the FCC provider was fully certified at the previous installation.   