
2  –  9.  Voluntary release from active duty due to pregnancy  
a.  A commander with SAA may release an RC officer  who requests REFRAD because of pregnancy provided the 
officer has no ADSO. This authority may not be further delegated. When the SAA approves the REFRAD, release 
instructions will be forwarded to the appropriate MPD. Should the SAA disapprove the REFRAD r equest, the SAA 
will make a recommendation to include justification and forward the request to the office listed in paragraphs 1 –10b, 
1–10d, or 1 –10f, as applic able, for final action.  
b.  For an officer not under the jurisdiction of a commander having SAA, the approval authority is HRC, TJAG, or 
OCCH (or HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for USAR AGR officers). On approved applications, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) (or HRC 
(AHRC  –  AR) for  USAR AGR officers) will forward REFRAD instructions to the appropriate MPD.  
c.  When it has been determined that an officer is pregnant, the officer will be counseled by the officer’s immediate 
commanding officer or executive officer. The counselor will explain to the officer that the purpose of the counseling 
is to provide information concerning the officer’s rights, entitlements, and responsibilities with respect to continued 
AD or separation. The counselor will not influence or direct the officer to mak e any particular decision. A statement 
of counseling will be signed by the counselor (see fig  2  –  2). A copy of the statement of counseling will be filed in the 
officer’s military personnel file (MPF) or AMHRR.  
d.  An officer who is commissioned through a funded program or a training recipient (for example, AMEDD, FLEP, 
USMA, ROTC, or special procurement programs) will not be released until completion of that initial Service school 
obligation. An officer serving unde r a contractual agreement, such as but not limited to incentive special pay, medical 
additional special pay, medical officer retention bonus, or nurse accession bonus, will not be released until completion 
of the service obligation. In addition, an officer  will not be released from AD until the compulsory obligation acquired 
as a result of completing flight school is served. However, when extenuating circumstances exist, an officer may 
request a hardship separation in accordance with paragraph  2  –  7. 
e.  An officer who remains on AD will be assigned to an area where concurrent travel of dependents is authorized 
until completion of the initial service obligation.  
f.  If, before the REFRAD is accomplished, a medical officer determ ines that a pregnancy has terminated for any 
reason (including birth) the authority for separation no longer exists.  
g.  A pregnant officer may request leave of absence per AR 600  –  8  –  10. 
h.  An officer may request a specific separation date. However, th e separation authority and the officer’s military 
physician will determine the separation date. The date must not be later than 30 calendar days before the expected 
date of delivery, or the date is the latest date the officer’s military physician will auth orize the officer to travel to home 
of record or entry on AD location, whichever date is earlier.  
i.  An officer released under honorable conditions who is pregnant at the time of release is entitled to maternity care 
per AR 40  –  400. These medical benefit s are limited to care in military hospitals and do not, regardless of circum-
stances, include care obtained in civilian hospitals.  
j.  Characterization of service for REFRAD due to pregnancy may be characterized as honorable or under honorable 
conditions.  
k.  The steps required for processing voluntary REFRAD due to pregnancy are shown in table  2  –  5. 
 
Table 2  –  5 
Voluntary release from active duty due to pregnancy  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Informs the commander pregnancy and furnishes supporting documentation.  
2 SACT  
BN S  –  1 On confirmation of an officer’s pregnancy, C &S will advise the officer of the following rights and responsi-
bilities:  
a. Option to remain on AD or to request separation.   

 Table 2  –  5 
Voluntary release from active duty due to pregnancy  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
b. Entitlement to maternity care even if separated (see AR 40  –  400).  
c. Provisions for leave and absence during and after pregnancy (see AR 600  –  8  –  10). 
d. Provisions for maternity clothing.  
e. Policy governing availability for worldwide assignment (see AR 614  –  30). 
f. Local policies governing entitlements to basic allowance for subsistence and assignment to government 
Family quarters, to include when and how she would be eligible.  
g. Policies governing assignment OCONUS (see AR 614  –  30). If accompanied by dependent(s), require-
ment to make suitable arrangements for the unaccompanied evacuation of the dependent(s) in an emer-
gency situation (for example, mobilization).  
h. On PCS, the Government will pay for the child’s transportation only w hen—  
(1) Traveling to, from, or between OCONUS permanent stations when the officer serves or has been ap-
proved to serve a “with dependents” tour and the child is command sponsored.  
(2) Traveling to an OCONUS station, the officer must have approval of the O CONUS commander for con-
current travel of the child.  
i. Availability of legal assistance counseling concerning paternity laws governing child support, if applica-
ble. 
j. If the officer remains on AD, the necessity of careful planning for the child’s care without sacrifice of the 
officer’s military responsibilities. The officer must consider — 
(1) Who will care for the child during duty hours, alerts, field duty, and roster duty? Consideration should 
be given to child care cost.  
(2) Plans for housing, access  to duty, transportation arrangements, and availability of telephone.  
(3) Consideration of financial obligations that will accrue for child care, housing, transportation, and other 
emergency needs and how these obligations will be met.  
k. Provisions for submission of a dependent care statement of counseling on the birth of the child.  
l. Provisions authorizing separation of an officer whose substandard performance of duty is not solely at-
tributable to the condition of pregnancy.  
3 BN S  –  1 
C&S Sign the Pregnancy Counseling Statement and file in the officer’s MPF (see fig 2  –  2). 
4 Soldier  Submits REFRAD request if the officer so desires (see fig 2  –  1). 
5 SACT  
BN S  –  1 Process the request. Ensures counseling listed in step 2 of this table has been accomplished. The request 
will include — 
a. A brief synopsis of the counseling session.  
b. Date officer reported on current tour of AD; type, effective date, and date of termination of current AD 
commitment.  
c. Whether officer is occupying a key position and if a replacement is required.  
d. Whether medical board or PEB proceedings are pending or appropriate.  
e. Whether the officer is currently undergoing a course of instruction that will result in an ADSO upon com-
pletion or termination. Specify course title,  beginning and closing dates, and service obligations incurred.  
f. Whether responsible for public property or funds.  
g. Recommendation for approval or disapproval and character of service. Include complete justification 
when approval is recommended and the officer has not fulfilled an ADSO. Also include justification for dis-
approvals.  
h. Statement that the officer is not under investigation or awaiting result of trial, being considered for ad-
ministrative elimination, AWOL, or under the control of civil authorities.  
i. Date officer departed CONUS or other areas of residence for OCONUS assignment. Date of arrival of 
dependents, whether at government expense, whether logistical support was furnished, and the rotation 
dates if applicable.  
6 BN S  –  1 
C&S Reviews  the case and makes recommendation (if disapproval is recommended, justification must be pro-
vided).  
a. For when an officer who is under an SAA, the request will be forwarded through channels to the SAA for 
approval. Should the SAA elect not to approve the request, the SAA will make a recommendation, includ-
ing justification, and forward the request as indicated in step 6b  of this table for final action. If appropriate, 
the SAA will provide release instructions to the MPD and forward a copy of the action to H RC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as applicable.   

 Table 2  –  5 
Voluntary release from active duty due to pregnancy  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
b. For an officer not under an SAA, or when the SAA recommends disapproval, the request will be for-
warded through channels to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) for final action or to TJAG (DAJA  –  PT) or OCCH 
(DACH  –  PER), as applicable, for final action.  
c. For USAR AGR officers forward through channels to HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for final action.  
7 SACT (TC)  Receives separation instructions and separates the officer. Final release orders and forms will cite regula-
tory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 