
4  –  2.  Structure and policy  
a.  Child eligibility.  
(1)  Children of sponsors meeting eligibility criteria ( para 1  –  6) are authorized to enroll in programs within CDS delivery 
systems.  
(2)  Age eligibility factors are as follows:  
(a)  CDCs (6 weeks –12 years).   See paragraph  5–2a(4) for allowable variances for newborn infants of sole/dual military 
parents.  
(b)  FCC homes (4 weeks –12 years).   See paragraph  6–9b for allowable variances for newborn infants of sole/dual mil-
itary parents.  
(c)  SPS (6 weeks –12 years or as specified).  
(3)  Infant care in CDCs must be available to children beginning at 6 weeks. Restricting care only to older infants (e.g., 
6 months or above) is not permitted.  
(4)  CDS programs will provide reasonable accommodation for children with special needs in developmental care set-
tings and may not deny access solely on the basis of a disabling conditi on. The role of CDS programs is to provide special 
needs children access to developmental child care services. CDS programs are neither required nor intended to assume 
special education services mandated by the Education of the Handicapped Act (Public Laws  94  –  142) and Education of the 
Handicapped Act Amendments of 1986 (Public Law 99  –  457).  
(a)  A Special Needs Resource Team (SNRT) will function as a subcommittee of the EFMP coordinating committee to 
address placement of children including recommendation  of developmentally appropriate environment, adult/child ratios, 
group sizes and any necessary program adaptations. This team will include the CDS coordinator, special needs director, 
or designee and the Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP) coordinator  augmented by appropriate expertise (e.g., 
physician, psychologist, nurse, social worker, speech therapist, physical and occupational therapists) and the parents of the 
child involved.  
(b)  Care for the child will be coordinated by the EFMP coordinator wit h the Special Needs Resource Team as part of 
the individualized family service or education plan.  
(c)  The developmental, physical, emotional, and chronological age of the child will be considered when determining 
placement.  
(d)  Children will be mainstrea med within existing CDS programs.  
(e)  When more than 35 children designated as handicapped or special needs are mainstreamed in installation CDS 
delivery systems, a professionally qualified special needs director and supporting staff, if appropriate, as o utlined in DA 
Pam 570  –  551 will be provided. This position may not be necessary if a TACS or other CDS personnel with special edu-
cation backgrounds are part of the staff.  
(f)  The CDS coordinator or SPS director will provide points of contact to parents f or available programs and services 
provided by local public school systems to meet this need as mandated by Public Law 94  –  142 and Public Law 99  –  457, 
Amendment of 1986.  
(g)  Additional training requirements for caregiving employees and FCC providers providing care for children with 
special needs are specified in paragraphs  5–8d and 6–21e. 
(h)  Additional training requirements for caregiving employees and FCC providers providing care for children with 
special needs are specified in paragraphs  5–8d and 6–21e. 
(5)  Child development programs shall comply with AR 600  –  75. Accordingly, no otherwise qualified individual with a 
disability shall, solely by reason of her or his disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of , or 
be subjected to discrimination in a child development program. This includes children with disabilities who meet the 
essential eligibility requirements for services and parents with disabilities whose children are receiving or seeking service s 
in installation child development programs.   

 b.  Parental responsibilities.   The responsibility for rearing children rests with parents. The Army does not function as 
the legal successor –in–interest to the children of service members. However, the Army will assist parents in discharging 
that responsibility during the time s these children are enrolled in CDS programs.  
c.  Mission support requirements after duty hours and during mobilization, deployments and contingencies.  
(1)  Patrons who have mission requirements, mobilization, deployment, contingency or TDY responsibilities after nor-
mal duty must make their own arrangements for child care.  
(2)  CDS will support unit requirements for child care during training exercises, and alerts to the extent possible. The 
SPS director or CDS coordinator will assess installation and priv ate sector resources and advise unit commanders of child 
care options appropriate to specific requirements. Such recommendations will consider center –based extended care, FCC 
Extended Hours and Long Term Care homes, trained CDS baby –sitters, and Army Commu nity Services foster homes, as 
well as available off –post options.  
(3)  In accordance with installation requirements, a designated number of FCC providers should be recruited to provide 
child care services which support mission requirements after normal du ty hours. When the FCC system has limited open-
ings, new provider applicants should be restricted to those who agree to provide extended hours and long term care services 
if there is an unmet demand for these services.  
(4)  Center operating hours for full –day programs will reflect installation variable duty hours including accommodations 
for alerts and physical training schedules for active duty military, when the demand for extended hours care is for 10 or more children (or fewer children if determined appr opriate by the installation commander).  
(5)  The installation commander will consider needs of sole/dual military parents and emergency essential civilians 
when determining the operational hours for programs within CDS system.  
(6)  Sole/dual military parents and emergency essential DOD civilians will be given priority for services when care is 
needed to meet mission requirements.  
(7)  Service members required by AR 600
 –  20 to have a family care plan (FCP) and all single parents emergency essen-
tial sin gle parents, where both parents are emergency essential and dual military couples who use CDS for regularly sched-
uled care options (full, part– day care, part –day school –age care and part –day preschool programs) must provide accurate 
FCP information which w ill remain in the CDS Central Enrollment Registry. A duplicate copy of this information will be 
retained in the child’s file in the primary child care setting. Parents will provide update information to the SPS director 
annually or more frequently if neces sary to update information. The SPS director will forward new information to the 
primary child care setting.  
(8)  As an addendum to the ICCAP ( Chap  2, Sec VIII), CDS staff and installation functional proponents will develop a 
Mobilization and Contingency (MAC) plan. The MAC plan will address child care needs during mobilization, deployment, 
and local emergency situations (e.g., natural disasters, sudden facility/program closures, support for humanitarian efforts 
and final months of base closures).  
(a)  The CDS MAC plan will document anticipated demand, assess current capabilities, outline potential care op-
tions/services, and identify necessary facility, personnel and financial resources. The MAC plan should also address needed 
policy modifications (which still safeguard the health, safety and well being of children in care) that will permit timely 
implementation of flexible and responsible child care options.  
(b)  Short term policy modifications and waivers for interim MAC i nitiatives may be approved locally by the installation 
commander in consultation with CDS and functional proponents. However, when the extraordinary circumstance is over, applicable standards and requirements must again be followed.  
(c)  The CDS MAC plan w ill be approved by the installation commander and referenced in the Installation Mobilization 
Plan.  
(d)  At a minimum the CDS MAC plan will be monitored for feasibility and current applicability as part of the annual 
ICCET process and reviewed during each MCCET/ACCET inspection.  
(e)  The SPS director will assume the lead responsibilities for the MAC plan per para 3–12i. 
(9)  The most current HQDA procedural guidance on the MAC plan will be followed.  
Section II  
Program Management Compliance Requirements  