
6  –  22.  Mandatory retirement due to maximum service  
a.  Unless earlier retired, an RA major general (not on a list of officers recommended for promotion) will, if not 
earlier retired, be retired on the first day of the first month beginning after the date of the fifth anniversary of appoint-
ment to that grade or on the first day of the month after the month in which he or she completes 35 years of active 
commissioned service, whichever is later (see 10 USC 636).  
b.  Unless earlier retired, an RA brigadier gener al (not on a list of officers recommended for promotion) will, if not 
earlier retired, be retired on the first day of the first month beginning after the date of the fifth anniversary of appoint-
ment to that grade or on the first day of the month after the month in which he or she completes 30 years of active 
commissioned service, whichever is later (see 10 USC 635).  
c.  Unless earlier retired, an RA colonel (not on a list of officers recommended for promotion) will, if not earlier 
retired, be retired on the  first day of the month after the month in which he or she completes 30 years of active 
commissioned service (see 10 USC 634).  
d.  Unless earlier retired, an RA lieutenant colonel (not recommended for promotion) will retire the first day of the 
month after  the month which the officer completes 28 years AFCS (see 10 USC 633).  
e.  SECARMY may retire any USMA permanent professor with more than 30 years commissioned service (see 10 
USC 7320).  
f.  Each RA warrant officer will, if not earlier separated or retired, be retired on the first day of the month after 
completing 30 years and 60 days active service as a warrant officer, creditable to him under PL 81  –  351, except as 
provided by 5 USC 8301.  
g.  The maximum service notification memorandum will be forwarded by HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) to the officer 
and their commander approximately 9 months before the officer’s scheduled retirement date. In addition, a copy will 
be forwarded to the appropriate MPD. The memorandum advises the officer of their approaching retirement, express-
ing appreciation for service, and includes a suggestion that contact be made with the local examining facility concern-
ing any medical defects of which the officer is aware. The memo randum includes the officer’s mandatory retirement 
date, the specific statutory authority for the retirement, and pertinent data.  
h.  On receipt of the officer’s pre- retirement data, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will complete the retirement packet and 
forward it to the appropriate TC.  
i.  The steps required for processing mandatory retirement due to maximum service are shown in table  6  –  5. 
  

  
Table 6  –  5 
Processing mandatory retirement due to maximum service  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Receives maximum service notification memorandum approximately 9 months before the mandatory re-
tirement date and the following guidance:  
a. Mandatory retirement date, the specific statutory authority, and pertinent service data.  
b. Advisement to contact local medical examining facility regarding any known medical problems.  
2 SAA 
C&S BN S  –  1 Receives copy of the officer’s maximum service notification memorandum including the pre -retirement 
data instructions.  
3 BN S  –  1 
SACT  Receives copy of the officer’s maximum service notification memorandum and takes the following actions:  
a. Coordinates to ensure the officer has received notification memorandum and to provide assistance as 
needed.  
b. Controls the separation processing.  
c. Maintains the officer’s file for 30 days after the retirement, then destroys the file.  
4 BN S  –  1 
SACT  Forwards the officer’s pre -retirement data (see fig 6  –  3), including POC and telephone phone number, 
through channels, a minimum of 3 months prior to the scheduled date, to the following:  
a. General Officer Management Office, Office of the Chief of Staff, Army, 200 Army Pentagon, Washing-
ton, DC 20310  –  0200, for general officers.  
b. Commander, Human Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 16 00 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort 
Knox, KY 40122  –  5400, for all other officers.  
5 TC  Receives retirement packet and conducts retirement processing. Final separation forms will cite regulatory 
authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 
Section IV  
Other Retirement  