
1  –  4.  Responsibilities  
a.  Assistant Secretary  of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (ASA (M&RA)) will develop and oversee 
policies related to officer retention, transition, and separation. The ASA (M&RA)’s responsibilities will be accom-
plished through the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army ( Review Boards) (DASA (RB)), who will act as the 
Secretary of the Army (SECARMY)’s designee in involuntary release from active duty (REFRAD) of officers under 
the provisions of chapter  2 of this regulation (through the Dir ector, Military Review Boards), and for officer elimina-
tions under the provisions of chapter  4 of this regulation, resignations and discharges in lieu of elimination, retirements 
in lieu of elimination, resignation for th e good of the Service (RFGOS) in lieu of court -martial, and will make final 
determinations in each case in accordance with a delegation of authority by SECARMY. This regulation does not 
constitute a separate delegation of authority by SECARMY to the DASA ( RB), but rather provides guidance in the 
administrative execution of that delegated authority by the Army Review Boards Agency (ARBA).  
b.  Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS), G  –  1 will establish personnel policies relating to officer transfers and discharges 
and through the Commanding General (CG), Human Resources Command (HRC), will establish standards and oper-
ating tasks for the officer transfer and discharge program.  
c.  The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) will, upon request, review Department of the Army (DA) administrative 
changes to regulations to verify the legality of prescribed policies and changes, and through the servicing Office of 
Staff Judge Advocate, will ensure sufficient trained, qualified, and certified legal personnel are available to support 
Boar ds of Inquiry, as needed, and will provide the recorder, assistant recorder (if any), and legal advisor to Boards of 
Inquiry.  
d.  CG, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC), through the Commandant, Adjutant General 
School, will ensure lesson programs of instruction incorporate the provisions of this regulation.  
e.  The Chief, National Guard Bureau (NGB) will execute policies for Army National Guard of the United States  
(ARNGUS) officer transfers, discharges, and retirements under the provisio ns of this regulation. The Chief, NGB may 
delegate, if necessary, in writing, the authority to act on his behalf to a lower authority within the NGB.  
f.  Commanders of Army commands (ACOMs), Army service component commands (ASCCs), and direct reporting 
units (DRUs) will monitor the administration of the officer transfer and discharge program to ensure compliance with 
the policies and operating tasks established by this regulation.  