

 3  –  18.  Individual Education Plan (IDP)  
IDPs will be developed for a ll CDS caregiving employees, FCC providers and management personnel. IDPs are required 
to ensure that a minimum level of initial and ongoing training is established for all individuals.  
a.  Training will be related to CDS program type, the individual’s wor k assignment/type of FCC home, and the individ-
ual’s competency level.  
b.  Training options will include readings, videos, workshops, observations, classroom/home environment assessments, 
and special projects.  
c.  All training should be competency based and  designed in such a way as to be compatible with the Child Development 
Associate (CDA) credentialing criteria.  
d.  Credit hours given for IDP training may not equal hours spent in actual training, observing or evaluating. Actual 
number of hours required to complete a training requirement may exceed the number of credit hours given.  
e.  Training will be recorded on the following:  
(1)  DA Form 5764  –  R (Individual Development Plan (IDP) Child Development Center Personnel Initial Training Rec-
ord) for Child Dev elopment Center caregiving employees, will be used to document the initial 38 hours of training required 
for all center –based caregiving employees during the first nine months of employment. DA Form 5764  –  R will be com-
pleted jointly by the individual and CDC management personnel, usually the TACS. DA Form 5764  –  R will be reproduced 
locally on 8 1⁄2 X 11 –inch paper. A copy of the form for reproduction is located at the back of this regulation.  
(2)  DA Form 5763  –  R (Individual Development Plan (IDP) for Fa mily Child Care (FCC) Provisional Certification 
Training Record), will be used to document the 38 hours of training required for FCC providers prior to certification. DA 
Form 5763  –  R will be completed jointly by the FCC provider and FCC management personn el. DA Form 5763  –  R will be 
reproduced locally on 8 1⁄2 X 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for reproduction is located at the back of this regulation.  
(3)  DA Form 5765  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Personnel/Providers Annual Individual Developme nt Plan 
(IDP) Training Record) will be used to document the 24 hours of ongoing training required annually for all caregiving employees and FCC providers. DA Form 5765
 –  R will be reproduced locally on 8 1⁄2 X 11 –inch paper. A copy of the form 
for reproduc tion is located at the back of this regulation.  
(4)  DA Form 5760  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Management Personnel Cumulative Individual Develop-
ment Plan (IDP) Training Record) will be used to document training received by CDS management personnel in all CDS 
delivery systems. DA Form 5760  –  R will be reproduced locally on 8 1⁄2 X 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for repro-
duction is located at the end of this regulation.  
f.  TACSs will meet with all CDC caregiving employees within 30 days of date of hire and all FCC provider applicants 
during the precertification period to set up an IDP.  
g.  Prior hours of training may be substituted at the discretion of the TACS if training falls within approved topics and 
can be verified by the issuing school, ag ency, or program.  
h.  Training credit may be awarded for college or other professional training taken during the training period based on 
submission of transcripts of courses relevant to child development and early childhood education.  
(1)  The TACS will d etermine the amount of credit to be applied toward IDP requirement only after receipt of official 
transcripts.  
(2)  A maximum of 12 credits will be allowed annually.  
(3)  Orientation credit may not be given in this manner.  
i.  Caregiving employees and FCC providers who have earned a CDA or degree in early childhood education or related 
field may have specific training topics waived, but will still be required to complete 38 hours of initial training and 24 hours of annual inservice training.  
j.  IDPs will b e reviewed quarterly by the TACS and the individual trainee using the worksheet format in figure  3
 –  2 to 
assess progress and determine the needs for ongoing inservice training.  
k.  Signature verification of completion will be required both from the individual and the TACS.  
l.  Copies of IDP training records will be provided to transferring employees and FCC providers for reciprocal use at 
other Army installations.  
m.  DA Forms (5760  –  R) (5764  –  R) and (5765  –  R) will b e placed in the official personnel files of CDS employees.  
n.  DA Form 87 (Certificate of Training) will be awarded to all individuals — 
(1)  Following the first 15 hours of entry level training for CDC employees.  
(2)  Following completion of the 23 hours of skill level training.  
(3)  Annually upon completion of 24 hours of inservice training.  
(4)  As locally determined for SPS personnel.  
o.  Training certificates (user designed) will be awarded to all FCC providers.  
(1)  Following completion of 20 hours of provisional certification training.  
(2)  Following completion of 18 hours of certification training.   

 (3)  Annually, upon completion of 24 hours of in service training.  