
2  –  5.  Voluntary release from active duty due to personal reasons  
a.  If eligible under the criteria prescribed in par agraph  2–5b, an officer may request REFRAD whenever such 
action is considered appropriate (see fig  2  –  1). Unless otherwise specified, application for REFRAD will be submitted 
not earlier than 12 months or no later than 6 months before the desired release date or beginning date of transition 
leave, whichever is the earliest. The officer’s immediate (or higher) commander/supervisor may waive the 6 -month 
requirement if the needs of the Army are met through a change in mission requirement or the assignment of a replace-
ment officer.  
b.  To be eligible for REFRAD under this paragraph, an officer must have—  
(1)  Completed the current period of service required by law or the minimum period required by the program that 
placed  the officer on AD as a commissioned or warrant officer.  
(2)  Fulfilled the following additional service requirements, as applicable: 
(a)  Officers who have departed the CONUS normally will be required to complete the current prescribed tour for 
the areas of assignment as specified in AR 614  –  30, unless returned earlier under existing policies.  
(b)  Officers who have attended service schools or civilian educational institutions or participated in special training 
for which a utilization tour is required, o r who have received continuation or accession pay, normally will complete 
the period of service specified. The period of service will be as specified by AR 350  –  100 and other appropriate regu-
lations under which officers applied for or received such school ing or benefits.  
(c)  Officers on orders for assignment to a military mission, a Military Assistance Advisory Group, or attaché office 
must complete their training and the OCONUS tour of duty prescribed by AR 614  –  30. 
(d)  All other officers who receive a PCS will be required to serve 1 year at their new duty station.   

 (e)  Service academy graduates and ROTC DMG who are released/separated from AD before completing their 
ADSO will complete the remainder of their ADSO in the selected Reserve. This requirement  may only be waived by 
the ASA (M&RA) or designee.  
c.  In all other cases, HQDA reserves the right to require compliance with orders to a course of instruction that will 
result in an ADSO or reassignment orders in CONUS or to any OCONUS assignment, if such  orders are announced 
prior to submission of application for REFRAD. However, exception requests will be considered on an individual 
basis provided the application for REFRAD is received by commanders exercising GCMCA jurisdiction or command-
ers at a compar able level of command. The exception request must be forwarded within 30 calendar days of receipt 
of the alert or reassignment order, whichever is earlier, and the requested effective date cannot be more than 6 months 
subsequent to date of application. Off icers who are service obligated beyond 6 months may submit their application 
for REFRAD, as an exception to policy, more than 6 months in advance of the requested effective date. The nonstat-
utory criteria in this paragraph may be waived only by HQDA on a case -by-case basis.  
d.  If the application is approved, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) (or HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for USAR AGR officers) will 
forward separation instructions to the appropriate MPD.  
e.  If disapproved, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or Office of the  Chief of Chaplains (DACH  –  PER), 
as applicable, will return the application to the officer through channels.  
f.  The steps required for processing voluntary REFRAD due to personal reasons are shown in table  2  –  1.  

  
Figure 2  –  1.  Sample memorandum for request for voluntary release from active duty  
 
 

  
Figure 2  –  1.  Sample memorandum for request for voluntary release from active duty —continued 
 
 
 

  
Table 2  –  1 
Processing voluntary release from active duty for personal reasons  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Submits REFRAD request for personal reasons to commander within the time frame established in para-
graph 2  –  5 (see fig 2  –  1). 
2 SACT  
BN S  –  1 Processes the request. Ensures counseling is accomplished as stated in paragraph 1  –  14. The request 
will include — 
a. The officer’s reason for requesting REFRAD.  
b. A brief synopsis of the counseling session.  
c. The date the officer reported on the current tour of AD; type, effective date, and date of termination of 
current AD commitment.  
d. Whether officer is occupying a key position and a replacement is required.  
e. Whether services of the officer have been such as to entitle him or her to be released from AD under 
honorable conditions.  
f. Whether medical board or PEB proceedings are pending or appropriate.  
g. Whether the officer is currently undergoing a course of instruction that will result in an ADSO upon com-
pletion or termination. Specify course title, beginning, and closing dates, and ADSO inc urred.  
h. Whether responsible for public property or funds.  
i. Recommendation for approval or disapproval and character of service. Include complete justification 
when approval is recommended and the officer has not fulfilled an ADSO. Also include justific ation for dis-
approval.  
j. Statement that the officer is not under investigation or charges, awaiting result of trial, being considered 
for administrative elimination, AWOL, or under the control of civil authorities.  
k. Date officer departed CONUS or other area of residence for OCONUS assignment. Date of arrival of 
dependents, whether at government or personal expense, whether logistical support was furnished, and 
the rotation date, if applicable.  
3 BN S  –  1 
C&S a. Reviews and makes recommendation. Request will be forwarded by commanders exercising GCMCA 
jurisdiction and commanders at a comparable level of command to Human Resources Command 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400; The Judge Advocate 
General (DAJA  –  PT), 2 200 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2200; or Office of the Chief of Chap-
lains (DACH  –  PER), 2700 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2700, as applicable, for final action. 
Approved actions will be forwarded to the HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), for separati on message processing.  
b. For USAR AGR officers, the commander exercising GCM authority and commanders at a comparable 
level of command will send requests to the HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for final action/separation processing.  
4 SACT (TC)  Receives separation instructions and separates the officer. Final release orders and separation forms will 
cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 