
6  –  12.  Approval authority  
a.  SECARMY is the approval authority for retirements. SECARMY has delegated approval authority for voluntary 
retirements (waiver/nonwaiver) to CG, HRC (RA and USAR Soldiers); Chief, NGB (10 U SC ARNG Soldiers); state 
adjutants general (for 32 USC ARNG Soldiers); and Chief, Colonels Management Office for RA Army competitive 
category colonels and promotable lieutenant colonels. Retirement approval authorities may approve, disapprove, or 
delay/def er the requested retirement date of an officer who has completed 20 but less than 30 years of AFS. Endorsing 
commanders are reminded that an officer requesting a voluntary nonwaiver retirement who has completed 20 but less 
than 30 years of AFS is eligible,  but not entitled to, retire upon request. Commanders who wish to recommend denial 
of a voluntary nonwaiver retirement request should forward the application to HRC, ARNG state, or NGB, as appli-
cable, with an accompanying statement setting forth the recomm endation of denial. Voluntary retirements may be 
denied or delayed based on the needs of the Army, and each application will be evaluated on its individual merits. 
Approval authority for voluntary retirements requiring a waiver is HRC, ARNG state, or NGB, as applicable, and, in 
some cases, SECARMY. Approval authority for voluntary retirements of regular commissioned officers with at least 
30 but not less than 40 years of active service for retirement purposes is SECARMY. Approval of retirement requests 
may be mandatory or discretionary, based on the specific provision of law. Delegation of approval authority does not 
include the following retirement categories:  
(1)  General officer retirements.  
(2)  Retirement with fewer than 20 years of service (early retir ement).  
(3)  Mandatory retirements (when an officer has been notified by HQDA, for example, of Selective Early Retire-
ment Board, reduction in force, maximum service, or maximum age).  
(4)  Retirement applications submitted by officers of the JAGC and Chapla in Corps (must be approved by TJAG 
(DAJA  –  PT) or the OCCH, respectively).  
(5)  AGR retirements/waivers of USAR AGR officers must be approved by the Commander, Human Resources 
Command (AHRC  –  AR), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400.  The Chief, NGB, as appro-
priate, must approve all retirements/waivers of National Guard AGR officers.  
(6)  Applications from Soldiers who require any type of a waiver to permit retirement. The retirement application 
of Soldiers who are “flagged” or should have been flagged must be submitted to HQDA for approval, with the excep-
tion of “flags” imposed for APFT failure or overweight (see AR 600  –  8  –  2). The retirement application of officers who 
have an ADSO must be submitted to HQDA for approval (see AR 350  –  100).  
(7)  Officers pending involuntary separation proceedings; for example, an officer directed to show cause.  
(8)  Regular commissioned officers with at least 30 but less than 40 years of active service for retirement purposes.  
b.  Voluntary retirement requests may be submitted up to 12 months before the requested retirement date or not 
later than 9 months prior to the projected start date of transition leave. The officer must have 19 or more years AFS 
and be able to complete all service obligations by the retirement date.  
c.  Guidance for retirement at 20 years of service is listed as follows:  
(1)  An RA, USAR, ARNG commissioned officer with 20 years AFS, of which 10 years is active commissioned 
service, may upon request and the approval of SECARMY, be retired (see 10 USC 7311). An RC officer does not 
have to be serving on AD in commissioned status or in an active USAR status to be eligible under this paragraph.  
(2)  Any warrant officer with 20 years AFS may, upon request and the approval of SECARMY, be retired (see 10 
USC 1293). For Reserve warrant officers to retire under this provision, he or she must have USAR status at time of  

 retirement. It is not necessary for them to have served or to be serving on AD in the warrant officer status at time of 
retirement.  
(3)  For AD enlisted personnel who concurrently hold commissioned or warrant officer status in the USAR, para-
graphs 6–12c(1) and 6–12c(2) also apply.  
d.  An RA commissioned officer with 30 years’ service may, upon request and the approval of SECARMY, be 
retired (see 10 USC 7318). Reference for computation of retired pay is 10 USC 7361.  
e.  An RA commissioned or warrant officer who has at least 40 years of service will be retired up on request (see 10 
USC 7324). Reference for computation of retired pay is 10 USC 7361.  