
4
 –  15.  Night care  
The following will apply to all care given between 1800 and 0600:  
a.  Children in CDS programs for the evening hours but who do not spend the whole night will be allowed to sleep, if 
needed. Children enrolled for night care may remain in the center –based or FCC home more than 12 hours in order to 
avoid disrupting sleeping patterns.  
b.  A bed, cot, or crib with individual sheets and blankets will be provided for eac h child in night care. Parents may be 
required to provide rubber sheets for children who bed wet.   

 c.  Each child present when the evening meal occurs will be served unless the child has eaten before coming to the 
program or will leave before 1900. A nightt ime snack will be available to all children at a regularly scheduled time. Break-
fast will be served to all children who remain in the center or home for more than 60 minutes after waking for the day.  
d.  Children who remain overnight will have a shower, tub, or sponge bath as needed for body cleanliness. When a 
bathtub or sponge bath is used, fresh water must be drawn for each child and the tub or basin will be cleaned after each 
use. Caregiving employees and FCC providers must be in the room while children  under five years of age are bathing.  
e.  Each child will have individually labeled sleeping garments, washcloth, towel, toothbrush, and one change of cloth-
ing. 
f.  Evening and morning schedules of program activities will be planned for the hours that chil dren are awake. An area 
separate from that used for sleeping must be provided for non –sleeping children to engage in these activities.  
g.  Adult/child ratios and staffing patterns will be maintained in CDC settings during nighttime operating hours with a 
minimum of two staff per child activity room/module.  
h.  CDC staff and FCC providers will be trained in the emergency evacuation of sleeping children.  
i.  CDS personnel in center –based settings must be awake at all times.  
j.  Center –based settings operating  during darkness will have emergency lighting or wall –mounted emergency lights for 
each room used by children.  
Section IV  
Developmental Programming Compliance Requirements  