
4  –  36.  Meals and snack service  
a.  Children in CDS settings during mea l time will be served a meal or snack.  
b.  Meal and snack periods will be conducted in such a way to contribute to the children’s growth and development. 
Meals will be planned to provide the opportunity for children to learn to eat and enjoy a variety of nutritious food as well 
as to learn culturally appropriate socialization patterns.  
(1)  Children must not be forced to eat, and food will not be used as a reward or punishment.  
(2)  Toddlers, preschool age and school –age children will be encouraged to part icipate in food preparation, setting ta-
bles, serving food, and clean –up activities.   

 (3)  CDC activity room staff and FCC providers will sit and eat with the children as part of the children’s nutritional 
training. Meals should be served in a leisurely mann er, with time allowed for conversation.  
(4)  Tables, chairs, serving pieces, eating utensils and non –breakable dishes and glasses of design and size suitable for 
use by children must be provided. Styrofoam cups will not be used for infants or toddlers. FCC  homes may adapt adult 
size furniture and equipment for use by children at mealtimes.  
(5)  Infants will be fed or supervised individually. Patterns established for infant feeding will be based on individual 
children’s feeding schedules rather than adult im posed schedules.  
(6)  Highchairs will have wide bases and safety straps. Straps will be used when infants are fed. Children will not be 
left unattended in highchairs. Children will not be left in highchairs after feeding. Infants will not be fed in multiple seat 
infant feeding tables.  
(7)  Infant spoon feeding and self –feeding will be encouraged as interest occurs.  
(8)  A feeding plan will be established for each full –day and part –day infant in consultation with the parent and based 
on the recommendations o f the child’s physician or other qualified health professional. This plan will be revised as neces-
sary every three months. The plan will include — 
(a)  Type of commercially prepared formula to be used.  
(b)  A feeding schedule.  
(c)  Weaning plans, as applicable.  
(d)  Introduction of solid and new foods.  
(e)  Provisions for breast feeding, if applicable.  
(9)  Infant formula may be provided by parents or ready to feed infant formula may be purchased by the CDC and 
poured into bottles provided by parents. Formula provided by CDC or FCC providers will conform to type required in infant’s individual feeding plan. Infant formula will be provided in bottles containing a single serving. Unused portions of 
bottles will be discarded. An emergency supply of ready –to–feed commercial formula as required by infants’ feeding plans 
will be maintained.  
(10)  Infants will be within sight of CDC personnel and FCC providers while eating.  
(11)  CDC personnel and FCC providers will role model good table manners, encourage chil dren to eat nutritious foods 
served, and foster development of good eating habits.  