
5  –  37.  Custodial and housekeeping services  
Custodial services will be provided for all spaces and content within the CDC facility according to AR 420  –  81 and the 
basic level of service prescribed in TM 5  –  609. Additional APF or NAF support may be required for higher levels of service 
required to maintain standards of cleanliness. Installation custodial contracts which are amended to incorporate CDC clean-
ing se rvices should be reviewed jointly by CDS health and engineer proponents to ensure provision of adequate services 
as reflected herein. SOPs for custodial and housekeeping services will incorporate the following:  
a.  Caliber of the cleaning service desired w ill be specified as hospital– grade quality.  
b.  Work will be executed by support personnel employed solely for this purpose specified in paragraph  5–37d through 
g. Caregiving employees will not perform custodial services wit h the exception of wiping tables, sweeping floors etc., after 
program activities and meal service, to maintain functional orderliness and cleanliness.  
c.  All custodial equipment, supplies, materials will be approved by the health consultant or safety officer. This equip-
ment will comply with all Federal specifications and fire regulations.  
d.  All custodial and housekeeping services will be performed according to the following specifications:  
(1)  Child routines will not be disturbed by custodial activities . The majority of daily services cleaning will take place 
when CDC is not in operation and children are not present.  
(2)  Hallways, stairways, entrances, and doorways will not be obstructed by any cleaning or maintenance operations or 
storage of equipment and materials.  
(3)  All furniture, equipment and materials will be replaced in their original positions upon completion of the cleaning 
or maintenance tasks.  
(4)  Custodial supplies and equipment will be properly stored in locked cabinets or closets away f rom child activity 
rooms/modules.  
e.  The following services will be provided daily:  
(1)  Sweeping entryways, rugs, stairs, landings, floors, sidewalks, drives, patios, and balconies.  
(2)  Vacuuming all carpeted surfaces.  
(3)  Mopping floors, stairs, entrance ways, and landings.  
(4)  Scrubbing with approved disinfectant highchairs, cribs, playpens, child activity tables and chairs, toilet bowls, uri-
nals, sinks, washbasins, kitchen equipment and appliances, food service areas, drinking fountains, and wa ste containers.  
(5)  Dusting furniture, equipment, and surfaces within the reach of the children.  
(6)  Wiping mirrors, metal door plates, bathroom and kitchen fixtures, and all metal fittings.   

 (7)  Cleaning showcases, entrance doors, activity space/module door frames and switches, paper towel dispensers, and 
any other surfaces as required.  
(8)  Policing grounds for trash, debris, and safety hazards.  
f.  The following services will be provided weekly:  
(1)  Scrubbing walls, woodwork, and partitions in child a ctivity spaces/modules bathrooms.  
(2)  Dusting ledges, window sills, walls, woodwork, handrails, light fixtures, ducts, air –conditioning, heating units, and 
other surfaces where dust may collect.  
g.  The following services will be provided as needed, but a t least semi– annually:  
(1)  Cleaning of window coverings.  
(2)  Washing all windows (inside and outside).  
(3)  Waxing and buffing floors.  
(4)  Cleaning upholstered furniture, carpeting, and outer miscellaneous furniture and surfaces.  