
2  –  5.  CDS Installati on Child Care Evaluation Team Review  
a.  An annual internal review and evaluation process for all installation CDS programs will be established to substantiate 
CDS compliance with DOD and Army standards, and to ensure application of regulatory and policy g uidance within all 
CDS delivery systems.  
b.  The review will be organized and coordinated by the CDS coordinator and conducted by an installation ICCET 
composed of the following: a local command representative, (e.g., DPCA, ADCFA), the CDS coordinator, ins tallation 
regulatory proponency representatives, (fire marshal, housing officer, health consultant, CPO officer, FAPM, safety of-ficer, facility engineer, dietitian) a parent and a child development professional from the private sector or from another insta llation. Additional team members may be designated by the command according to local requirements. The installa-
tion (inspector general) IG may participate as an observer if requested by the installation commander. The most current procedural guidance from HQDA on the ICCET process will be followed.  
c.  The CDS Single Source Criteria ( appendix  C) and materials provided by USACFSC (CFSC
 –  SF  –  CY) will be used 
for the ICCET.  
d.  The ICCET will identify the following in writing:  
(1)  The level and quality of services being provided to fulfill the requirements for meeting CDS standards.  
(2)  The extent to which installation CDS programs are meeting DOD and Army standards.  
(3)  The areas of strength and those needing improvement.  
e.  The ICCET will brief findings to the installation commander.  
f.  The ICCET will develop an action plan to be approved by the commander to correct deficiencies and improve or 
expand program services.  
g.  Information derived from the ICCET will support reporting requirements specified in section IV, paragraphs  2  –  18 
through 2  –  20. 
h.  The ICCET may occur in conjunction with a MACOM or DA staff  assistance visit.  
i.  ICCET findings, recommendations, and corrective action initiatives will be maintained on file at the installation and 
provided to higher headquarters upon request (paras  5  –  54 and 6  –  52).  