
7  –  30.  CDS baby -sitting training and referral service  
Any installation baby -sitting list will be maintained by the SPS system. The SPS delivery system will provide a central 
point for the implementation of a baby -sitter training and referral service for adult and teen family member baby -sitters 
living both on and off the installation. This service will include — 
a.  Registration for family member baby -sitters, 13 years of age and o ver, who have completed a CDS approved training 
course.   

 b.  Provision of a regularly scheduled training course.  
(1)  The training course will include, at a minimum, basic first aid, CPR, child abuse and neglect, identification and 
reporting, emergency proc edures, developmental programming, and general business practices (i.e., fee setting, responsi-
bilities to the child and parent, responsibilities of the parent to the sitter, clarification of baby -sitter and parent expecta-
tions).  
(2)  Training will be a min imum of 10 credit hours as determined by the SPS director. The Red Cross Baby -sitting 
Course may be used, with installation specific supplements, to train teens. A similar course is under development for use 
with adult family members.  
c.  Listing of registered baby -sitters through the CDS resource and referral service.  
(1)  Babysitters will complete training as a precondition for placement on the CDS baby -sitter referral list.  
(2)  All family members included on the CDS baby -sitter list will complete the agreement for inclusion on the CDS 
baby -sitter referral list (see fig 7  –  2). 
(a)  Family members under 18 must have parental permission to be included on the CDS baby -sitter referral list as 
evidenced by signature of parent(s)/or guardian(s) signature on the agreement statement shown in figure  7  –  3. 
(b)  Information included on the agreements in figures  7  –  2 and 7  –  3 will be provided to parents seeking baby -sitter 
assistance.  
(c)  Completed agreements will be kept on file at th e SPS office for three years.  
(3)  Parents seeking baby -sitters will complete and sign a statement of understanding ( fig 7  –  1) prior to receiving any 
information. Completed statements of understanding will be retained in the SPS files for three years.  
(4)  Parents will be informed that—  
(a)  CDS baby -sitters are not subject to background clearances and that placement on the baby -sitter referral list indi-
cates only completion of approved training; and in the case of minor s, parental permission for placement on the referral 
list. 
(b)  Placement on the SPS baby -sitter referral list shall not be evidence of the baby -sitter’s competence or suitability for 
baby -sitting.  
(c)  Placement on the CDS baby -sitter referral list does not represent endorsement of the baby -sitter by the United States 
Army or Army installation.  
(d)  Selecting and hiring a baby -sitter is a parental responsibility.  
(5)  SPS director will verify names and information on the CDS baby -sitter availability list quarterly.  
(6)  Removal of baby -sitters from the CDS baby -sitter list will occur upon departure from the command or for docu-
mented cause as determined by the SPS director and stated in the local baby -sitter training and referral SOP.  
d.  The SPS director w ill develop an installation baby -sitter training and referral SOP which will include, at a mini-
mum—  
(1)  Program management procedures.  
(2)  SPS responsibilities.  
(3)  Training requirements.  
(4)  Exclusion criteria.  
(5)  Reporting and recordkeeping require ments.  
e.  The SPS director will maintain the following records for the baby -sitter training and referral service: number of teens 
and adults trained, number of teens and adults registered, number of referrals, documentation of quarterly update of referral  
list, copies of signed statement of understanding and copies of signed agreement for inclusion on the CDS baby -sitter 
referral list and parental permission, if applicable.  
f.  The CDS baby -sitter training and referral service will be evaluated in the ICCE T process and with user satisfaction 
surveys.  
g.  ACS baby -sitter lists will be phased –out no later than .  