
2
 –  32.  Inspections and Certification  
a.  Unannounced inspections.   In addition to other required inspections by proponent agencies during the year, four 
unannounced inspections of each CDS system will be conducted to meet the requi rements of the MCCA. In response to 
each inspection, the installation shall develop a corrective action plan that addresses any deficiencies found during the inspection.  
(1)  Installation Inspections.   Three of the unannounced inspections will be local. Th ese inspections will be conducted 
at intervals to ensure the CDS program has continuous oversight. These inspections will consist of the following:  
(a)  A comprehensive fire and safety inspection by the installation fire and safety proponent(s);  
(b)  A com prehensive health and sanitation inspection by the installation health and sanitation proponent(s); and  
(c)  An unannounced portion of the multidisciplinary ICCET review process. This inspection will be led by a repre-
sentative of the installation commander  and verify compliance with DOD standards. The team will include parent repre-
sentation and solicit the views of parents. The most current HQDA procedural guidance on the ICCET process will be followed.  
(2)  A MACOM or HQDA inspection.   The fourth unannounc ed inspection will be conducted by higher headquarters. 
The higher headquarters inspections shall be called Army Child Care Evaluation Team (ACCET) or MCCET inspections. The most current procedural guidance on the MCCET/ACCET process will be followed.  
b.  DOD shall periodically, but at least twice annually, make unannounced visits to selected installations to review com-
pliance with DOD standards.  
c.  Remedies for violations.   

 (1)  Whenever life –threatening violations of this regulation or other safety, healt h, and child welfare laws or regulations 
are found (during an inspection or at any other time) the commander shall immediately ensure remedy of the violation or 
will close the facility (or affected parts of the facility).  
(2)  The MACOM commander may grant  the installation up to 90 days to correct non –life threatening situations, begin-
ning on the date of discovery of the violation. If the installation cannot remedy the situation in 90 days, the program, facility, or affected portion of the program or facility will be closed until the deficiency is corrected. The Secretary of the 
Army may waive the closure requirement and authorize the program to remain open if the violation cannot reasonably be corrected within the 90 day period or if major facility renovati on is required.  
(3)  Facilities closed due to violations must be reported to the House and Senate Armed Services Committees by the 
Secretary of the Army. The report shall include a notice of the violation that resulted in the closing, the cost of remedying  
the violation, and a statement of reasons why the violation has not been remedied as of the time of the report.  
(4)  If a military CDC is closed, a copy of the report notifying the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representative s shall be forwarded through command channels to the Commander, U.S. Army Community and 
Family Support Center, ATTN: CFSC
 –  SF  –  CY who will then forward the report to the Office of the Secretary of Defense.  
d.  DOD Certification.   DOD certification will b e awarded to installation CDS programs based on compliance with 
DOD standards as verified by the annual higher headquarters inspection. Each installation will be inspected annually and 
the MACOM or HQDA certification recommendation will be forwarded.  
(1)  All CDS programs on an installation must be included in the inspection and certification reports. Special attention 
will be given to MCCA funding and staffing requirements, parent involvement, child abuse prevention, quality of devel-
opmental programs, staf f training, and career progressions. DOD certification will be issued on total installation CDS 
service delivery; no certifications will be granted to individual CDS programs on an installation.  
(2)  Certification procedures for conducting and forwarding t he results of the MACOM inspections as outlined in the 
most current procedural guidance from HQDA will be followed.  