
6  –  23.  Selective early retirement/selective retirement  
a.  A duly appointed board of officers may consider the following RA officers for selective early retirement (see 10 
USC 638) or RA chief warrant officers for selective early retirem ent (see 10 USC 581) when — 
(1)  A regular warrant officer who holds a warrant officer grade above WO1 and who is not on a promotion list of 
warrant officers recommended for promotion and who is retirement eligible under any provisions of law.  
(2)  A captain who is not on a list for promotion to major who is retirement eligible or who after 2 additional years 
or less of AFS would be eligible for retirement.  
(3)  A major who is not on a list for promotion to lieutenant colonel who is retirement eligib le or who after 2 
additional years or less of AFS would be eligible for retirement.  
(4)  A lieutenant colonel who has been nonselected for promotion two or more times and who is not on a list for 
promotion to colonel.  
(5)  A colonel who has served at least  4 years of AD in that grade and whose name is not on a list for promotion to 
brigadier general.  
(6)  A brigadier general who has served at least 3 years and 6 months of AD in that grade and whose name is not 
on a list of officers recommended for promotion . 
(7)  A major general who has served at least 3 years and 6 months of AD in that grade.  
b.  Officers with an approved voluntary retirement or an approved voluntary retirement in lieu of consideration by 
the selective early retirement/selective retirement board (or a mandatory retirement date during the same fiscal year 
as the board or the following fiscal year) will not be considered for selective early retirement.  
c.  A colonel and below will be retired under any provision of law under which the officer i s eligible, on the date 
requested by the officer and approved by SECARMY. This date will not be later than the first day of the seventh 
calendar month beginning after the month the selective early retirement board report is approved by SECARMY. An 
officer who is not retirement eligible as of the date SECARMY signs the board’s results will be retired on the first day 
of the month after the officer becomes retirement eligible.  
d.  A brigadier general or major general will be retired under any provision of the law under which the officer is 
eligible, on the date requested by the officer and approved by SECARMY. This date will not be later than the 1st day 
of the 10th calendar month beginning after the month the selective early retirement board report is approved by 
SECARMY.   

 e.  The retirement of a commissioned officer or a chief warrant officer pursuant to this section will be an involuntary 
retirement for purposes of any other provision of law.  
f.  The DCS, G  –  1 will sign the notification memorandum. HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will forward through a flag 
officer the notification memorandum to each officer selected for early retirement. The following will be included:  
(1)  Acknowledgment.  
(2)  Administrative instructions.  
(3)  Retirement application.  
g.  The steps req uired for processing selective early retirement/selective retirement are shown in table  6  –  6. 
 
Table 6  –  6 
Processing selective early retirement/selective retirement  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 C&S Receives notification memorandum on individual officer or warrant officer selected for early retirement. 
Notifies officer or warrant officer concerned and returns signed statement that he or she was notified to 
HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). 
2 Soldier  Receives notification from a flag officer of selection for early retirement. Complies with the administrative 
instructions in the notification memorandum.  
3 TC  Receives retirement packet and conducts retirement processing. Final separation forms will cite regulat ory 
authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 