
5  –  54.  Program evaluation  
CDC programs will be assessed for program compliance and monitored for quality assurance on a regular basis as outlined 
at paragraph 2  –  5. A quality assurance plan will be developed jointly by the center and program director(s) and the TACS 
assigned to the CDC progra m. Major program oversight components include — 
a.  Environment rating scales.   Rating scale will be used on an ongoing basis and completed annually by CDC manage-
ment personnel to — 
(1)  Systematically assess center programs using a numerical rating to quant ify acceptable levels of care.  
(2)  Identify caregiving areas and situations which need corrective action.  
b.  The CDC CARAT.   The CDC CARAT will be used by CDC management personnel to — 
(1)  Annually assess the potential risk of a child abuse or neglect al legation or situation occurring in a CDC.  
(2)  Review administrative/personnel policies and operational procedures whenever a child abuse allegation has been 
surfaced in an Army operated or regulated center –based setting.  
c.  ICCET.   Results of the ICCET w ill be used to focus management concerns, plan CDC staff training and program 
improvement initiatives, support budget and personnel requests, and review internal procedures. Evaluation data from the following sources will be included: 
(1)  Annual facility and program reports.  
(2)  Quality of life standards.  
(3)  Patron satisfaction survey(s).  
(4)  Environment rating scale.  
(5)  Center productivity analysis sheets (when available).  
(6)  Internal controls checklists.  
(7)  Proponent inspections.  
(8)  USDA CACF P enrollment.  
(9)  Staff qualification and training records.  
(10)  Center CARAT.  
(11)  Trip reports resulting from higher headquarters visits.  
(12)  Special investigations (e.g., Article 15
 –  6, CID Crime Prevention Survey, USDA CACFP Audits, Army Audit 
Agency Reports).  
(13)  State licensing inspection if applicable.  
d.  Program accreditation.   Center programs will pursue accreditation through the National Academy of Early Child-
hood Programs no later than FY 94.  
(1)  Installations will develop a plan for achieving accreditation for CDC programs. Such a plan should include DOD 
certification based on compliance with program standards.  
(2)  Installations will coordinate with MACOMs and USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY) prior to initiating the official accred-
iting proc ess with the Academy.  
(3)  Procedures and criteria are outlined in Accreditation Criteria and Procedures of the National Academy of Early 
Childhood Programs, 1984.  
Chapter 6  
FCC System Component Requirements  
Section I  
Overview  