
3  –  6.  Resignation for the purpose of enlistment/re -enlistment in the Regular Army  
a.  An officer or warrant officer on the ADL who meets the criteria as stated in paragraph  3–6b or paragraph  3–6c 
may submit a resignation for the purpose of enlistment or re -enlistment in the RA. The officer or warrant officer must 
be counseled that if he or she enlists in the RA, the officer must submit a memorandum of resignation from USAR 
officer or warrant officer appointment. The resignation will be sent to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). A Soldier may not 
serve on AD in an enlisted status and continue to hold a USAR officer or warrant officer appointment.  
b.  Any former enlisted member of the RA who was on AD as a Reserve officer or warrant officer of the Army or 
who was discharged a s an enlisted member to accept a temporary appointment as an Army officer or warrant officer 
may be re -enlisted in the enlisted grade held before serving as an officer or warrant officer. There will be no loss of 
seniority or credit for service, regardless  of the existence of a vacancy in their pay grade, or of a physical disability 
incurred or service -connected, or incurred in the line of duty. This is provided that the individual’s service is termi-
nated by an honorable discharge (or general discharge unde r honorable conditions) and the officer is released from 
AD for a purpose other than to await appellate review of a sentence that includes dismissal or dishonorable discharge. 
An officer is not entitled to be re -enlisted if the officer was discharged or released from AD as a Reserve officer on 
the basis of a determination of misconduct, moral or professional dereliction, substandard duty performance, or in the 
interests of national security, or where the officer’s former enlisted status was based solely on participation in a pre -
commissioning program that resulted in the Reserve commission held by that person during AD from which the officer 
was released or discharged. Re- enlistments rights, grade, and procedures for applying for re -enlistment under this 
paragraph are provided in AR 601  –  280. Unused leave will be carried forward to the new status.  
c.  Any former enlisted member of the RA on AD as an officer or warrant officer (without statutory entitlement to 
re-enlist) who is not eligible to retire as an of ficer or warrant officer but has sufficient creditable service to retire in an 
enlisted status may be enlisted for the purpose of retirement (this is not a statutory entitlement). The individual may 
apply for enlistment in the rank of sergeant; however, individual qualifications will determine the grade to be awarded 
(see AR 601  –  280).  
d.  SECARMY may deny enlistment or re -enlistment to anyone, including those who otherwise meet the criteria 
specified in paragraph  3–6c, excep t those who have a statutory entitlement (see 10 USC 7158).  
e.  The counseling as stated in paragraph  1–14b is not required for a resignation submitted under this paragraph.   

 f.  Separation instructions on approved requests will be issued by HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) to the appropriate MPD. 
For the purpose of retirement, an officer or warrant officer will be discharged on the third day prior to the first day of 
the month in which retirement is desired. For the purpose of continuing a military career in an enlisted status, an 
officer or warrant officer will be discharged on the day prior to the day of enlistment in the RA. HRC will forward a 
copy of the approved resignation packet to HRC (AHRC  –  OPZ  –  O). 
g.  A resignation approved by HQDA will be under honorable conditions. A DD Form 256 (based on the officer’s 
record of service) will be provided.  
h.  The steps required for processing resignation for the purpose of enlistment/re -enlistment in the RA are shown 
in table  3  –  2. 
 
Table 3  –  2 
Resignation for the purpose of enlistment/re -enlistment in the Regular Army  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Submits resignation not later than 120 calendar days prior to the requested separation date (paras 5 
through 9 of figure 3  –  1 do not apply when submitting a resignation under this section). Add the following 
statement to the fourth paragraph of figure 3  –  1: “I am tendering my resignation for the purpose of enlisting 
in the RA (t o continue my military career in enlisted status, for retirement, input as appropriate).” The of-
ficer should coordinate with the local re- enlistment office concerning enlistment in the RA.  
2 SACT  a. When the purpose for submitting the resignation is for enlistment in the RA for retirement, process the 
resignation to include—  
(1) Date officer reported on current tour of AD.  
(2) Permanent enlisted grade and DODID.  
(3) Grade determination according to AR 601  –  280, if appropriate.  
(4) DA Form 2339 (Applicati on for Voluntary Retirement) under AR 635  –  200. 
(5) Medical examination (see AR 40  –  501).  
b. When the purpose for submitting the resignation is for enlistment in the RA to continue Army career in 
enlisted status, process the resignation. The following will be added as a new paragraph five to figure 3  –  1, 
“I will enlist in the RA at place of separation on the day following the effective date of my discharge as an 
officer.”  
2 BN S  –  1 
C&S Reviews and forwards the officer’s resignation through channels to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). 
3 SACT (TC)  On receipt of separation instructions, discharges the officer or warrant officer as directed in paragraph 3 -
6f. Separation orders and forms will cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 