
2  –  2.  Major Army commands (MACOMs)  
a.  MACOM commanders are responsible for the management and operational  supervision of MACOM, major subor-
dinate command, and installation CDS programs. They will — 
(1)  Establish CDS staff positions or designees at MACOM and major subordinate command levels to interpret program 
policy and oversee CDS programs within the command.  
(2)  Ensure MACOM CDS management personnel, or designees are professionally qualified and that grade level ratings 
show levels of responsibility and complexity of duty assigned.  
(3)  Coordinate with resource management concerning allocation of MACOM CDS  resources to installations.  
(4)  Ensure MACOM CDS management personnel and the regulatory proponents for health, facilities, fire, safety, child 
abuse, and legal matters coordinate regularly with HQDA counterparts. (Note: This will ensure that MACOMs remain 
apprised of current policies and have access to guidelines and resource materials issued for use in interpreting program policy.)  
b.  MACOM CDS management personnel or designees will — 
(1)  Establish and review MACOM CDS program policy.  
(2)  Oversee inst allation implementation of HQDA guidance and requirements; and provide technical assistance to en-
sure compliance with CDS standards.  
(3)  Conduct periodic onsite technical assistance visits. Conduct periodic unannounced inspections with regulatory pro-
ponen ts as part of the MACOM Child Care Evaluation Team (MCCET) for installation compliance with policy, fire, health, 
nutrition, safety, program, child abuse, and facility structural standards; and report findings to the installation and MACOM  
commanders and U SACFSC (CFSC
 –  SF  –  CY) as directed.  
(4)  Sponsor training opportunities and resources for installation CDS personnel.  
(5)  Collect and analyze installation CDS reports and resource requirements.  
(6)  Coordinate and submit installation and MACOM CDS resour ce requirements through program and budget channels 
to HQDA.  
(7)  Review requirements for installation CDS services through needs assessment and demographic surveys and realign 
or expand services as reflective of installation needs.  
(8)  Coordinate installation CDS pilot projects and research studies with USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY) 
(9)  Inform USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY) of innovative MACOM and installation program efforts.  
(10)  Distribute to the field and ensure compliance with most current procedural g uidance from HQDA.  
c.  MACOM Chief of Engineers will — 
(1)  Review and approve functional requirements, project formulation control data, initial project design data, and con-
cept and project design control data.  
(2)  Ensure that economic analysis of all fea sible alternatives is prepared to justify and identify construction projects 
before the projects are presented to HQDA in the MACOM submission. Ensure that the required economic analysis is 
included in the special requirements paragraph 1 (SRPI) of the DD Form 1391 with projects submitted to HQDA.  
(3)  Review installation DD Form 1391 to ensure that proposed sitings are consistent with the approved MACOM master 
plan.  