
6
 –  52.  Program evalu ation  
The FCC system will be assessed for program compliance and monitored for quality assurance on a regular basis as out-
lined at paragraph 2  –  5. A quality assurance plan will be developed jointly by the FCC director, outreach worker(s), and 
the TACS assigned to the FCC system. Major program oversight components include — 
a.  Use of an environmental rating scale on an on –going basis with assessment completed annually by FCC management 
personnel to —  

 (1)  Systematically assess i ndividual FCC homes to quantify acceptable levels of care.  
(2)  Identify caregiving areas and situations which need corrective action.  
b.  The FCC CARAT will be used by FCC management personnel to — 
(1)  Assess the potential risk of child abuse or neglect allegation or situation occurring in a FCC home, as a minimum 
prior to full certification and before recertification. Use DA Form 5761 (Family Child Care (FCC) Risk Assessment Tool 
Observation Instrument), DA Form 5761  –  1  –  R (Family Child Care (FCC) Risk  Assessment Tool Observation Summary), 
DA Form 5761  –  2  –  R (Family Child Care (FCC) Risk Assessment Tool Interview Summary), and DA Form 5761  –  3  –  R 
(Family Child Care (FCC) Risk Assessment Tool Report). DA Forms 5761, 5761  –  1, 5761  –  2, and 5761  –  3 will be repro-
duced on 81⁄2 by 11– inch paper. Copies of these forms for reproduction are located at the back of this regulation. FCC 
providers will be afforded an opportunity to review the Privacy Act Statement on the DA Form 5761  –  R prior to use of the 
CARA T. 
(2)  Review the FCC system and the individual FCC provider’s administrative procedures and operational policies 
whenever a child abuse allegation is made against a FCC home.  
c.  Ten percent or a minimum of five provisionally certified homes and 10 percent or a minimum of five certified FCC 
homes will be randomly selected for review (by the ICCET) in addition to the management structure of the FCC system. 
Results of the ICCET will be used to focus management concerns, plan FCC provider training and progra m improvement 
initiatives, support budget and personnel requests and review internal procedures. Evaluation data from the following 
sources will be included:  
(1)  Annual facility and program report.  
(2)  Quality of life standards.  
(3)  Patron satisfaction survey(s).  
(4)  Environmental rating scale.  
(5)  FCC system Productivity Analysis Sheets (when available).  
(6)  Internal control checklists.  
(7)  Proponent inspections.  
(8)  USDA CACFP enrollment.  
(9)  FCC management personnel qualifications.  
(10)  FCC providers’ qualifications and training records.  
(11)  FCC CARAT.  
(12)  Special investigations e.g., Article 15  –  6, CID Crimes Prevention Survey, USDA CACFP audits, Army Audit 
Agency.  
(13)  State licensing inspections if applicable.  
(14)  FCC system respon se to unauthorized child care.  
(15)  Trip reports resulting from higher headquarters visits.   

  
Figure 6  –  1.  Sample FCC provisional certification document  
 
 

  
Figure 6  –  2.  Sample certification document  
 
 

  
Figure 6  –  3.  Provider Statement of Understanding Regarding Family Child Care  
 
 

  
Figure 6  –  4.  Parental Statement of Understanding Regarding Family Child Care  
 
 

  
Figure 6  –  4.  Parental Statement of Understanding Regarding Family Child Care —Continued  
Chapter 7  
SPS System Component Requirements 
Section I  
Overview  