
1  –  6.  Child eligibility criteria  
a.  Active duty military personnel, APF and NAF DOD civilian personnel, reservists on active duty or during inactive 
duty personnel training, and DOD contractors are eligible to use all Army operated or sponsored child development pro-
grams (CDC, FCC, and SPS).  
(1)  Each installation commander shall establish a written priority system which clearly states military and civilian ac-
cess to CDS programs. This written policy will be available to all eligible patrons who want to enroll their children in 
installation operated or sponsored child development programs. The written policy should consider the installation mission 
and demographics when determining military and civilian access.  
(2)  The installation policy will give first priority for child care to active duty military and DOD civilian personnel who 
are either single parents; or parents whose spouse is employed on a full –time basis outside the home or is a military member 
on active duty. Spouses may be military members on active duty, employed full –time outside the home by a government 
agency or a private sector employer, or full –time students. Installation commanders shall determine on a case– by–case 
basis whether spouses employed on a full –time basis but working within  the home shall be included in the full –time 
working parent patrons category.  
(3)  First priority patrons ( paragraph  1–6a(2) above) shall be referred to as full –time working parent patrons in policy 
documents.  
(4)  Policie s for full –time working parent patrons must be based on one of the following categories. The installation 
will— 
(a)  Serve all full– time working parent patrons on a first come first served basis; or  
(b)  Serve all full –time working parent patrons who are s ingle parents first, then all active duty military and DOD civil-
ians with a working spouse second, or vice versa; or  
(c)  Serve all full –time working parent patrons who are single parents on active duty and all active duty military with a 
working spouse fi rst, then all full– time working parent patrons who are DOD civilians and DOD civilians with a working 
spouse second or vice versa;  
(d)  Serve all full– time working parent patrons on a military/civilian percentage basis, allotting child care spaces to 
military and civilian patrons which reflect the percentage of the total military and civilian workforce on the installation; or  
(e)  Serve all full– time working parent patrons assigned/attached to the installation before serving full –time working 
parent patrons  who are not assigned/attached to the installation; or  
(f)  Other combinations of first priority full– time working parent patrons.   

 b.  At least 80 percent of the existing operational capacity of CDC facilities shall be used for full day and part day care 
if there is an excess demand waiting list for either type of care. Use of this space for part –day preschool, school –age before 
and after school or hourly care programs is restricted to 20 percent of the existing operational capacity. Part day preschool , 
before and after school and hourly care programs may be offered in other suitable facilities.  
c.  When the number of full –time working parent patrons on the excess demand waiting list exceeds 15 percent of the 
existing CDS operational capacity, the installation commander shall expand full –day child care spaces both on and off the 
installation by:  
(1)  Actively recruiting for more FCC and or SPS providers; or  
(2)  Increasing the installation CDS R & R services to locate viable off –post child care options; or  
(3)  Contracting for spaces in off –post programs.  
d.  A child already attending a program generally should not be displaced to allow room for a child with higher priority.  
e.  Written installation policies are available which address priorities for service and procedures for filling child care 
spaces. The most current procedural guidance on waiting list management from HQDA, to include sibling priority and 
placement of special needs children, will be followed.  
Section II  
Overview  