
1  –  24.  Medical examination/retention  
a.  The officer’s immediate commander will ensure that medical examination procedures are followed as stated in 
AR 40  –  501. 
b.  All RA, AGR, and RC officers on AD for 180 days or more are required to complete a separation history and 
physical examination (SHPE) prior to voluntary or involuntary separation fro m AD or retirement pursuant to AR 
40  –  501 and DODI 6040.46. The SHPE may be waived only in cases where the officer is not under military control of 
the Army, such as unauthorized absence or civilian incarceration. In such cases, the officer’s immediate co mmander 
will initiate a request for waiver of the SHPE and forward it through command channels to the CG, HRC (or Chief, 
NGB for ARNG AGR officers) for endorsement to the SECARMY or designee. The request must provide justification 
for waiver of the SHPE an d include documentation that substantiates the officer is not under military control of the 
Army.  
c.  10 USC 1177 establishes that a medical examination is required before administrative separation for any officer 
who has deployed overseas in support of a contingency operation or has been sexually assaulted during the previous 
24 months, and is diagnosed as experiencing post -traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or traumatic brain injury (TBI), or 
reasonably asserts the influence of such a condition, based upon service while deployed. The purpose of the medical  

 evaluation is to evaluate a diagnosis of PTSD or TBI. Any such Soldier will not be administratively separated under 
conditions other than honorable until the results of the medical examination have been re viewed by the separation 
authority. The commander also must ensure that all specific requirements for a medical examination under 10 USC 
1177 are followed under the provisions of AR 40  –  501. 
d.  An officer, who has been deployed overseas in support of a c ontingency operation during the previous 24 
months, and who is diagnosed by a physician, clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, licensed clinical social worker, or 
psychiatric advanced practice registered nurse as experiencing PTSD or TBI or who otherwise reasonably alleges the 
influence of such a condition based on the service of the officer while deployed or sexual assault, will not be admin-
istratively separated under conditions other than honorable, including an administrative separation in lieu of court -
martial, until the appropriate separation authority has reviewed and considered the results of the required medical 
examination under 10 USC 1177 (see para  4–3d). 
e.  An officer may only be retained past separation date for medical reasons when continued hospitalization or 
medical observation is required to determine entitlement to retirement or separation for physical disability. An officer 
being retired (voluntary or involuntary) due to maximum age (see para 6  –  22) or length of service (see para 6  –  23) will 
not be retained on AD unless the medical condition requires referral to a physical evaluation board (PEB) (see para 
6  –  7). An officer who is medically fit for retention will not be retained beyond the established separation date. An 
officer will not be retained without written consent (see para 1–24i). 
f.  The commander of the medical treatment facility (MTF) will forward requests for retention endorsed by the 
officer’s unit commander through Headquarters, U.S. Army Medical Command (MCHO  –  CL), 2748 Worth Road, 
Joint Base San Antonio -Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, TX 78234  –  6000 to the Commander, H uman Resources 
Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400; or for AGR personnel 
to the Commander, Human Resources Command (AHRC  –  AR), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 
40122  –  5400, or for 10 USC AGR A RNGUS Soldiers to Chief, National Guard Bureau (ARNG  –  HCM), 111 S. George 
Mason Drive, Arlington, VA 22204  –  1373, for approval. The requests will include the following information:  
(1)  Officer’s name, rank, and Department of Defense identification (DODI D) number.  
(2)  Reason for release (for example, nonselection for promotion).  
(3)  Scheduled release date.  
(4)  Medical reasons for retention.  
(5)  Medical facility point of contact (POC).  
(6)  A copy of completed DA Form 2823 (Sworn Statement) (see fig  1  –  1). 
g.  The officer will be advised of the following retention advantages:  
(1)  Medical care and/or hospitalization provided.  
(2)  Normal benefits such as pay and allowances, to include continued post exchange an d commissary privileges.  
(3)  Dependent medical care when an officer is ordered to AD for more than 30 days.  
(4)  The additional active service is creditable for longevity and retirement. For Reserve officers ordered to AD for 
30 days or less, any retentio n under paragraph  1–24e past the termination date of the orders is not creditable as AD 
for retirement under 10 USC 12731 (see para 1–24h). 
(5)  State income tax benefits where allowed by law.  
h.  Advise the officer that if he or she is eligible for disability separation, the advantages are as follows:  
(1)  If permanently retired, election of the most favorable retired pay allowed. If temporarily retired, the same se-
lection of pay is authorized , but the minimum will not be less than 50 percent of the basic pay.  
(2)  If retired, the officer, along with dependents, will be eligible for certain medical care when facilities and staffing 
permit at uniformed services facilities and certain medical car e in civilian facilities (see AR 40  –  3). 
(3)  The percentage of retired pay that is based on the disability may be exempt from taxation.  
(4)  If discharged for disability, the officer may be entitled to separation pay.  
i.  The retained officer will sign the DA Form 2823 (see fig  1  –  1). The next of kin or legal representative will sign 
for the retained officer when the retained officer is mentally incompetent or unable to sign. If the offi cer is unable to 
sign and the next of kin or legal representative cannot be located or will not indicate whether the officer will be 
retained, the officer will be retained until a retention decision is reached. The hospital commander will forward the 
detai ls of the case as required by paragraph  1–24f. File a copy in the officer’s Army military human resource record 
(AMHRR).  
j.  See AR 135  –  381 concerning procedures for RC officers on active duty for training (ADT) and active duty for 
operational support (ADOS) tours of 30 calendar days or less and are hospitalized.   