
5  –  23.  Organization and design of outdoor child activity spaces  
Outdoor child activity spaces will be provided and organized to support developmentally appropriate learning experiences for young children. Design guidance on play areas and equipment is contained in Office of the Corp of Engineer Architec-
tural and Engineering Instruction (AEI) Design Criteri a.  

 a.  A minimum of l00 square feet per child of outdoor space will be provided for all centers of up to 99 capacity. 
Minimum square footage in larger CDC facilities will be according to the AEI. The area will be capable of supporting a 
minimum of 50 perce nt of the children at any given period in centers with capacity of l00 or more children.  
b.  There must be at least l00 square feet for each child using the outdoor child activity space at any given time. CDS 
personnel will adjust classroom schedule for pl ayground activity times as necessary to ensure this requirement is met.  
c.  Separate outdoor child activity spaces designed to allow supervision by caregiving employees, must be provided for 
infants, toddlers, preschool -age, and school -age categories of ch ildren.  
d.  Outdoor child activity spaces must include a variety of surfaces and textures for different play activities including 
grass, sand, and asphalt.  
(1)  Surfaces will be nonslippery, well drained, and reasonably nonabrasive.  
(2)  Surfaces under pla yground equipment will be a type that will minimize injuries from falls (i.e., an impact attenuation 
according to the AEI and single source criteria paragraph  C  –  64). Existing concrete, asphalt, or similar surfaces adjacent 
to or beneath stationary play equipment must be covered with a resilient molded rubber mat safety surface meeting the 
impact attenuation requirement of not to exceed 200g, or the surface removed and replaced with a surface that meets the 
impact attenuation  requirements.  
e.  Outdoor child activity spaces will be enclosed by a perimeter fence a minimum of 4 feet in height, except when 
adjacent hazards demand higher fences as high as practice and recognized standards require.  
(1)  Subdividing fences within the  perimeter fence may be less than 4 feet.  
(2)  Fence designs will not include horizontal slat fences or natural hedges, and will provide adequate protection from 
animals and unauthorized personnel.  
(3)  There will be at least one child proof exit gate and access for emergency/maintenance vehicles.  
f.  Sheltered areas will be provided for protection from the sun in the absence of shade trees.  
g.  Outdoor child activity spaces will be organized to handle both individual and group activities.  
h.  There will be  access to an outdoor water source.  
i.  Seating areas for adults will be permitted only in infant outdoor child activity spaces.  
j.  Outdoor storage space located in each play area will be provided to store outdoor play equipment. Storage will be 
configure d and sized to accommodate wheel toys, strollers, sand and water materials, sports and playground equipment. 
Shelving will be provided to accommodate loose materials.  
k.  Playgrounds for alternative program options (for example, part –day preschool programs  in alternative facilities) and 
CDC annexes do not have to adjoin the facility, but must be accessible via a route free from hazards and be within 1/8 mile 
from the facility.  