
3  –  17.  General  
a.  All CDS employees, FCC providers and CDS volunteers will receive training to ensure execution of their duties and 
responsibilities at a level supportive of program objectives. Caregiving personnel and FCC providers will successfully 
complete orientation training b efore they work directly with children.  
b.  TACS will be assigned to center and FCC delivery systems to establish and conduct initial and inservice training for 
employees and FCC providers as required by this regulation.  
c.  Topics for training may be sele cted from, but are not limited to, subjects referenced in CDS training subject blocks 
index as shown below.  
(1)  Administration of medication.  
(2)  Administration and supervision.  
(3)  The Modern Army Record keeping System (MARKS).  
(4)  Behavior management  techniques.  
(5)  Child abuse identification and reporting.  
(6)  Child abuse and neglect prevention and response.  
(7)  Child Development Associate (CDA).  
(8)  Child development norms/principles.  
(9)  Child health and nutrition.  
(10)  Child safety practices . 
(11)  Curriculum development for infants.  
(12)  Curriculum development for toddlers.  
(13)  Curriculum development for preschool –age children.  
(14)  Curriculum development for school –age children.  
(15)  Financial management.  
(16)  First aid.  
(17)  Food service techniques.  
(18)  Military correspondence.  
(19)  NAEYC accreditation.  
(20)  Observation/interviewing and screening.  
(21)  Parent education.  
(22)  Parent involvement.  
(23)  Personnel management.  
(24)  Preparing and conducting staff training/inservic e workshops.  
(25)  Public relations.  
(26)  Sanitation practices.  
(27)  Sick child care/HIV.  
(28)  Space utilization for child activity areas.  
(29)  Special needs.  
(30)  Techniques in working with infants.  
(31)  Techniques in working with toddlers.  
(32)  Techniques in working with preschool –age children.  
(33)  Techniques in working with school –age children.  
(34)  Volunteer service management.  
(35)  Other topics according to local requirement.  
d.  Required readings and videos will be read or viewed in center –based settings during daily child nap and rest periods.  
e.  Appropriate resources, including DOD Manual 6060.1  –  19M, standardized training materials provided by USACFSC 
(CFSC  –  SF  –  CY) books, publications, and audiovisual materials that support CD S programming and administration will 
be available to all CDS personnel and FCC providers.  
f.  All CDS management personnel, but particularly the TACS will routinely interact with children and role model pro-
gram activities procedures as an element of ongoi ng staff training.  
g.  Membership in national and local early childhood professional organizations and participation in training opportu-
nities offered by these groups will be encouraged.   