
1  –  23.  Types of administrative and judicial discharge/characterization of service 
When an officer’s tour of AD is terminated due to discharge, REFRAD, or resignation, the period of service will be 
characterized as honorable, general (under honorable conditions), under oth er than honorable, dishonorable (warrant 
officers who do not hold a commission only), or dismissal depending on the circumstances. The service of an officer 
who retires may only be characterized as honorable. The characterization of service will be predicated on the officer’s 
behavior and performance while a member of the Army. Characterization normally will be based on a pattern of 
behavior and duty performance rather than an isolated incident. However, there are circumstances in which conduct 
reflected by  a single incident may provide the basis of characterization of service.  
a.  Honorable characterization of service.   An officer will normally receive an honorable characterization of ser-
vice when the quality of the officer’s service has met the standards o f acceptable conduct and performance of duty, or 
the final revocation of a security clearance under DODI 5200.02 and AR 380  –  67 for reasons that do not involve acts  

 of misconduct for an officer. DD Form 256 (Honorable Discharge Certificate) will be furnis hed to a discharged officer; 
however, a certificate is not issued when an officer is released from AD. When the separation is based solely on pre-
service activities, substandard performance of duty, or final revocation of a security clearance under DODI 52 00.02 
and AR 380  –  67 for reasons that do not involve acts of misconduct, it will be honorable.  
b.  General (under honorable conditions) characterization of service.   An officer will normally receive an under 
honorable conditions characterization of service when the officer’s military record is satisfactory but not sufficiently 
meritorious to warrant an honorable discharge. A separation under honorable conditions will normally be appropriate 
when an officer — 
(1)  Submits an unqualified resignation or a requ est for REFRAD under circumstances involving misconduct.  
(2)  Is separated based on misconduct, including misconduct for which punishment was imposed, which renders 
the officer unsuitable for further service, unless an under other than honorable conditions  separation is appropriate.  
(3)  Is discharged for physical disability resulting from intentional misconduct or willful neglect, or which was 
incurred during a period of unauthorized absence.  
(4)  Is discharged for the final revocation of a security clearance under DODI 5200.02 and AR 380  –  67 as a result 
of an act or acts of misconduct, including misconduct for which punishment was imposed, unless a discharge under 
other than honorable conditions i s appropriate.  
c.  Under other than honorable conditions characterization of service.   A discharge under other than honorable 
conditions is an administrative separation from the service. A discharge certificate will not be issued. An officer will 
normally receive an under other than honorable conditions when he or she — 
(1)  Resigns for the good of the Service (see chap  3). 
(2)  Is dropped from the rolls (DFR) of the Army in accordance with paragr aph 5  –  9. 
(3)  Is involuntarily separated due to misconduct, moral or professional dereliction, or for the final revocation of a 
security clearance under DODI 5200.02 and AR 380  –  67 as a result of an act or acts of misconduct, including miscon-
duct for  which punishment was imposed.  
(4)  Is discharged following conviction by civilian authorities (see para 2  –  14). 
d.  Dishonorable characterization of service.   A general court -martial (GCM) may sentence a warrant officer who  
is not commissioned to a dishonorable discharge. A discharge certificate will not be issued.  
e.  Undetermined characterization of service.   An officer’s service will be characterized as “to be determined” when 
released from AD when being processed for eli mination action (see chap  4). 
f.  Dismissal.   A GCM may sentence a commissioned officer to a dismissal.  
g.  No formal discharge certificate.   No formal discharge certificate will be issued when the officer is — 
(1)  DFR of the Army (see para 5  –  9). 
(2)  Dismissed as a result of sentence of court -martial.  
(3)  Removed under the criminal code of the United States.  
(4)  Discharged under other than honorable conditions.  
(5)  Separated with a  dishonorable discharge (applies only to a warrant officer who does not hold a commission).  
(6)  Separated with a dismissal (applies only to commissioned officers).  
h.  Release or discharge from active duty.   A DD Form 214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty) 
will be furnished as prescribed in AR 635  –  8 to an officer who is separated from AD after completing 90 calendar days 
of continuous AD.  