
2  –  17.  Involuntary early release of Army National Guard of the United States and U.S. Army 
Reserve officers on active duty for training or active duty for operational support 
a.  The ARNGUS and USAR commissioned and warrant officers may be involuntarily released early from ADT or 
ADOS for any of the following reasons. The unit or agency sponsoring the tour will initiate the recommendation for 
involuntary early release when appropriate, taking into consideration the length of time remaining o n the officer’s 
tour, based on automatic release date authorized by self -terminating orders. (This paragraph does not relieve the com-
mander from moral obligation to pursue separation for cause under other sections of this regulation when the circum-
stances exist.) The approval authority for early release under paragraphs 2 –17a(2) and 2–17a(3) is the commander of 
the unit or agency sponsoring the tour and does not require board action.  
(1)  An officer’s conduct, degree of efficiency, or manner of performance is seriously deficient.  
(2)  There is a change in mission requirements which results in mal -utilization of the officer’s skills (no board), 
and/or the mission is completed before the en d of the officer’s tour end date.  
(3)  Funds are curtailed for the tour (no board).  
b.  The initiating commander will refer the recommendation for involuntary early release to the officer for rebuttal 
or comment (see fig 2  –  7). Specific reasons must be included in the recommendation. The officer’s rebuttal or com-
ments must be returned to the initiating commander within 15 calendar days from the date of receipt. No reasons will  

 be added after the officer’s review, without  further referral to the officer (see AR 600  –  37). The officer may submit a 
written request for voluntary early release instead of responding to the recommendation for involuntary early release 
(see fig 2  –  1). Should t he officer request voluntary release, the request will be processed in the same manner as a 
recommendation for involuntary early release, except that no board action is required. The officer’s request for vol-
untary release will be accepted and all involunt ary release action will cease.  
c.  The unit or agency commander sponsoring the tour that initiated the involuntary early release under paragraph  
2–17a(1) will submit a completed recommendation to include the officer’s reb uttal or comments. The recommendation 
will be sent through command channels of the unit or agency sponsoring the tour to Commander, Human Resources 
Command (AHRC  –  PLM  –  O), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400, for USAR officers or 
to Chief National Guard Bureau (ARNG  –  HCM), 2500 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2500, for ARNGUS 
officers. In addition, a copy of the recommendation will be sent to the officer’s assigned unit. Intermediate command-
ers will recommend approval or disapproval with reasons and forward promptly to the next higher headquarters.  
d.  The Chief, NGB and CG, HRC, acting for HQDA, will convene a board of officers to consider recommendations 
for involuntary early release under paragraph  2–17a(1) concerning their respective personnel. The board will deter-
mine if the officer will be retained or released from the tour. In all cases, when release is ordered, the commander will 
contact the orders issuing agency for amendment of o rders. The Chief, NGB and the CG, HRC will prescribe the board 
proceedings. A personal appearance by the officer before the board is not authorized. The board proceedings will be 
final.  
e.  An officer to be retained or released will be notified through the proper channels. An officer will be released 
within 30 calendar days after notice that the release has been approved or at the end of the tour, whichever is earlier. 
In no case will the officer be retained beyond the end date of the tour due to the releas e action not being completed.  
f.  An officer evaluation report (OER) or academic evaluation report, as appropriate, will be submitted in accordance 
with AR 623  –  3 on each officer who is involuntarily released or who voluntarily requests release in lieu of  the invol-
untary release action.  
g.  Entitlement to separation pay for officers who are involuntarily released should be determined by referring to 
AR 637  –  2. 
h.  Paragraph  2  –  14 does not apply to officers released early fr om their tour under this section.  
i.  The required steps for processing involuntary early release of ARNGUS or USAR officers on ADT, or ADOS 
are shown in table  2  –  13. 
 
Table 2  –  13 
Involuntary early release of Army National Guard of the United States or U.S. Army Reserve officers on active duty training, 
or active duty for operational support  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 Prepares and forwards involuntary early release recommendation to the officer (see fig 2  –  7). 
2 Soldier  Receives involuntary early release recommendation and responds with a rebuttal or comments or re-
quests voluntary early release in lieu of involuntary early release (see fig 2  –  1). Response must be in writ-
ing and provided to the initiating commander within 15 calendar days of receipt of the recommendation for 
involuntary early release.  
3 BN S  –  1 
C&S Reviews rebuttal, comments, or voluntary early release request. Each commander in the rating chain of 
the unit or agency sponsoring the officer’s tour that initiated the recommendation will recommend approval 
or disapproval and provide reasons for the recommendation.  
a. Recommendations for early release initiated under paragraphs 2- 17a(2) and 2- 17a(3), the commander 
of the unit or agency that sponsored the respective tour is the approval/disapproval authority.  
b. For recommendations for early release initiated under paragraph 2- 17a(1), the complete action will be 
promptly forwarded by each commander in the chain through the next higher headquarters to Commander, 
HRC (AHRC  –  OPM), for USAR officers or to Chief, NGB (ARNG  –  HCM) for ARNGUS officers.  
4 BN S  –  1 
PPAA (TC)  Receives release notification and ensures officer is released within 30 calendar days or at the end of the 
officer’s tour, whichever is earlier. Ensures that the appropriate evaluation report is prepared. Release or-
ders and forms will cite regulatory authority.   