
5  –  8.  Separation of an officer due to conviction by foreign tribunal  
a.  An officer will be discharged when convicted by a foreign tribunal and either of the following applies:  
(1)  The officer has been sentenced to death or imprisonment for more than 6 months, regardless of whether the 
sentence was suspended.  
(2)  Regardless o f actual sentence imposed, the officer has been convicted of an offense for which a sentence of 
more than 6 months of confinement is authorized by the Manual for Courts -Martial. (When the offense is not listed in 
the Maximum Punishments Chart or not closel y related to an offense listed, the maximum punishments authorized by 
the United States or District of Columbia Code (whichever is less) will apply.)  
b.  HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will make final determination as to the officer’s disposition and provide separation in-
structions or guidance for further processing under chapter  4 of this regulation (whichever applies) to the CONUS 
ACOM/ ASCC/DRU.  
c.  The steps required for processing the separation of an officer due to conviction by foreign tribunal are shown in 
table  5  –  6. 
 
Table 5  –  6 
Processing separation due to conviction by foreign tribunal  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The OCONUS ACOM/ASCC/DRU forwards to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), a report of an officer who is con-
victed after final action has been taken by foreign authorities. The report will contain—  
a. A recommendation as to administrative discharge or other disposition.  
b. A copy of the official U.S. observer’s report of trial or a transcript of the trial, if obtainable.  
c. Officer’s name, grade, DODID, branch, and organizational assignment.  
d. Alleged offense (includes all pertinent facts and circumstances).  
e. Name of court, date, and place of trial.  
f. Offense(s) of which found guilty, sentence imposed, and whether suspended.  
g. Matters in mitigation, extenuation, or aggravation.  
h. Appellate action, if any, and result s. 
i. Whether further action is possible or recommended.  
2 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The OCONUS ACOM/ASCC/DRU, when HRC authorizes an officer’s discharge in a foreign country, in-
forms the U.S. diplomatic mission in the country of such action.  
3 PPAA (TC)  Upon receipt of separation instructions, takes action to separate the officer.  