
6  –  14.  Provider and home certification  
a.  Certification will be authorized by the installation commander upon the recommendation of the CDS coordinator. 
Certification authorization may remain valid for not longer than a 3 –year period without renewal provided all ongoing 
requirements are met.  
b.  An SOP coordinated with appropriate regulatory proponents by the FCC director will be developed for the process 
of certifying FCC homes and FCC providers. This SOP will include as a minimum — 
(1)  A description of the certification process including role of CDS management personnel and other regulatory propo-
nents.  
(2)  Local requirements.  
(3)  A plan for recruitment and screening of potential applicants.  
c.  FCC provider applications will be processed within 60 days of submission.  
d.  The following DA Forms will be used for the certification p rocess:  
(1)  DA Form 5219  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Family Child Care (FCC) Provider Application) will be 
used to process individuals who apply to become certified FCC providers within the FCC delivery system. DA Form 
5219  –  R will be completed  and signed by the applicant and submitted to the FCC director. DA Form 5219  –  R will be 
reproduced locally on 81⁄2 by 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for reproduction is located at the back of this regulation.  
(2)  DA Form 5220  –  R (Child Development Se rvices (CDS) Family Child Care (FCC) Provider Background Clearance 
Request). Administration of DA Form 5220  –  R will be handled by the FCC director. DA Form 5220  –  R will be reproduced 
locally on 81⁄2 by 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for reproduction i s located at the back of this regulation. A release 
of information statement signed by the applicant must accompany the DA Form 5220  –  R. 
(3)  DA Form 5762  –  R (Family Child Care (FCC) Provisional/Certification Record/Operational Requirements) will be 
completed and verified by FCC management personnel or applicable regulatory proponents. DA Form 5762  –  R will be 
reproduced locally on 81⁄2 by 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for reproduction is located at the back of this regulation.  
(4)  DA Form 5221  –  R (Child Development Services (CDS) Family Child Care (FCC) Certification Denial/Revocation) 
will be used to notify an FCC provider or FCC provider applicant, that certification has been denied or revoked. DA Form 5221
 –  R will be issued by the CDS coordinator upon the recommendation of the FCC director. DA Form 5221  –  R will be 
reproduced locally on 81⁄2 by 11– inch paper. A copy of the form for reproduction is located at the back of this regulation.  
e.  A FCC Provisional certification document ( fig 6  –  1) will be awarded to each FCC provider applicant as evidence that 
all requirements for FCC provisional certification have been met. The document will be signed by the FCC director and the installation commander or designe e. The document will be locally designed and reproduced.  
f.  An FCC certification document ( fig 6
 –  2) will be awarded to each FCC provider as evidence that all requirements for 
FCC certification have been met.  
g.  FCC c ertification must be renewed every 3 years dating from original certification. Renewal will be contingent upon: 
(1)  Background clearance according to paragraph  2  –  24.  

 (2)  Update training in child abuse identification and reporting, first aid, CPR, communicable diseases, and administra-
tion of medication.  
(3)  Maintenance of 24 hours of annual inservice training requirements.  
(4)  Documentation by FCC management personnel that an acceptable level of care has been provided du ring the pre-
vious certification period.  
(5)  Home rating scores at minimal or higher level.  
(6)  FCC CARAT scores in low –risk category.  