

 2  –  18.  Involuntary release from active duty due to failure of selection for permanent Reserve 
promotion  
a.  The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to commissioned officers and warrant officers on the ADL (see 
AR 600  –  8  –  29, 10 USC 620, 10 USC 571, and 37 USC 201). Except as indicated in 2 -18b through 2 -18f, below, 
officers will be released  from AD. Reserve commissioned officers serving on AD, who fail a second time to be selected 
for promotion to permanent Reserve grade of captain or major, will be discharged not later than the first day of the 
seventh month after the month in which the Pre sident (or state adjutant for warrant officers) approves the report of the 
board which considered the officer for the second time, unless the officer is retained under the provisions of 10 USC 
12646, 12686, 14701, or 14703. This is unless earlier release i s voluntarily requested or transfer to the Retired Reserve 
is requested and the Soldier is eligible per AR 140  –  10. Officers and warrant officers with a remaining service obliga-
tion will be transferred to the Ready Reserve.  
b.  Reserve commissioned officers holding a permanent Reserve grade of 2LT and serving on AD as commissioned 
officers and who are not promoted to the permanent Reserve grade of 1LT on or before completing 3 years promotion 
service will be released. These officers must be released from A D and discharged on the date of completion of such 
service unless they have a remaining service obligation. Those serving an obligated period of AD will be retained on 
AD until completion of this obligation.  
c.  Reserve warrant officers holding the permanent Reserve grade of WO1 and serving on AD as warrant officers 
and who are not promoted to the permanent Reserve grade of CW2 on or before date completing 3 years promotion 
service will be released from AD. They will be released from AD and discharged on date of completion of such service 
unless they have a service obligation. Those serving an obligated period of service will be retained on AD until com-
pletion of their obligation.  
d.  Officers and warrant officers within 2 years of qualifying for retirement will be retained on AD until the last day 
of the month following the month they qualify for such retirement. This will apply to those qualifying for retirement 
under chapter  6 of this regulation (20 years AFS including 10 years commissioned service for officers) on their sched-
uled release date. Also, these officers and warrant officers must be able to qualify before attaining maximum ages 
specified in this chapter. Release must, however, be approved by SECARMY (see 10 USC 12686).  
e.  For majors (see AR 135  –  155 and 10 USC 14506), release from AD and removal from an active status will be 
on the later of the first day of the month after the month in which the officer completes 20 years of commissioned 
service, or the first d ay of the seventh month after the approval date of the promotion board report that nonselected 
the officer for the second time, unless the officer is retained under the provisions of 10 USC 12646, 12686, 14701, or 
14703. If not qualified and transferred to the Retired Reserve on the required date for REFRAD and removal from an 
active status, the officer will be discharged.  
f.  An officer or warrant officer eligible for retirement under chapter  6 may apply for retirement to  be effective not 
later than the first day of the month following the month in which release is directed.  
g.  HRC forwards the notification of nonselection through command channels for personal presentation to the of-
ficer.  
h.  HRC, upon receipt of the signed acknowledgment of notification of REFRAD and election of options from the 
officer, forwards a copy of the signed acknowledgment and election of options to the PSST.  
i.  The steps required for processing involuntary REFRAD due to failure of selection for  permanent Reserve pro-
motion are shown in table  2  –  14. 
 
Table 2  –  14 
Involuntary release from active duty due to failure of selection for permanent Reserve promotion  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 C&S The commander personally notifies the officer of their nonselection. The commander will counsel the of-
ficer regarding their options.  
2 Soldier  The officer is notified and counseled by commander. The officer signs the acknowledgment of notification 
and election of options and forwards to CG, HRC by the established suspense date.  
3 C&S The commander ensures the officer’s acknowledgment and election of options is forwarded to CG, HRC 
by the established suspense date.  
4 PSST  Upon receipt of the established separation date and the officer’s election of options from CG, HRC pro-
cesses the officer for REFRAD and discharge/transfer to Retired Reserve, as applicable. A copy of the 
acknowledgment and election of options will be filed in the officer’s MP F. Separation forms will cite regula-
tory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 
  

  
Figure 2  –  2.  Sample format for statement of counseling  
 
 

  
Figure 2  –  3.  Sample format for Department of the Army Active Duty Board recommendation  
 
 

  
Figure 2  –  3.  Sample format for Department of the Army Active Duty Board recommendation —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 2  –  4.  Sample format for officer’s acknowledgment of notification for recommendation for involuntary release from 
active duty  
 
 

  
Figure 2  –  5.  Sample format f or release date under AR 600  –  8  –  24 notification  
 
 

  
Figure 2  –  6.  Sample format for recommendation for involuntary release from active duty  
 
 

  
Figure 2  –  6.  Sample format for recommendation for involuntary release from active duty —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 2  –  7.  Sample format for recommendation for involuntary early release from active duty for training, active duty for 
special work- Active, or active duty for special work- Reserve 
 
 

  
Figure 2  –  7.  Sample format for recommendation for involuntary early release from active duty for training, active duty for 
special work- Active, or active duty for special work- Reserve—continued  
Chapter 3  
Resignations  