
3  –  13.  CDS caregiving employees and FCC providers  
a.  Program assistants and FCC providers.   Program Assistant and FCC providers who are competent and trained will 
be available to maintain adult/child ratios required by this regulation and provide direct developmental care services to 
children. Responsibilities include — 
(1)  Implementing indoor and outdoor program activities that support children’s physical, social, emotional, and intel-
lectual development.  
(2)  Encouraging chi ldren’s curiosity, problem solving, and task attainment.  
(3)  Role modeling communication and interaction skills for children.  
(4)  Extending children’s knowledge of concepts appropriate to their developmental levels.  
(5)  Recognizing individual difference s in children and responding to their individual needs.  
(6)  Providing for children’s daily routines such as meals, snacks, toileting, and rest periods.  
(7)  Providing for physical safety and well –being of children.  
(8)  Administering minor first –aid and carrying out emergency measures in case of illness, accidents, fire or disaster.  
(9)  Communicating with parents regarding the child’s daily experiences within the program.  
b.  Program leads/technicians.   Program leads or technicians will be provided in all  age categories and programs in 
center –based setting. Responsibilities will include those of program assistants and the following:  
(1)  Ensuring development –enhancing activities are provided to all children within the age group.  
(2)  Selecting program mate rials appropriate to interests, abilities, and developmental needs of children served.  
(3)  Arranging child activity space to support developmental programming and management practices.  
(4)  Establishing a climate where children and adults interact constru ctively in a group setting.  
(5)  Working with families to provide continuity between the home and program.  
(6)  Role modeling child guidance techniques for caregivers, parents, and the support staff.  
(7)  Ensuring programs provide for equal opportunities for all children, regardless of race, sex, handicap, creed, or na-
tional origin.  
(8)  Serves as leader to program assistants with responsibilities for the operation of the activity and program following 
the most current procedural guidance from HQDA.   

 (9)  Prepares and implements specialized care for children with special needs, i.e., handicapped children, children with 
disciplinary problems, or learning disabilities or gifted children.  
(10)  Maintaining records on individual children and groups.  
c.  Child de velopment (CD) teachers.   Responsibilities will include those of program assistants and program leads/ tech-
nicians and the following:  
(1)  Preparing courses of instruction and lesson plans for child activities.  
(2)  Employing teaching methods and technique s proper for child– age group category served.  
(3)  Ensuring program schedules and activities are responsive to needs, interests, and abilities of each child.  
(4)  Role modeling communication and interaction skills for children, direct services personnel, parents, and support 
staff.  
(5)  Role modeling child guidance techniques for direct services personnel, parents and support staff.  
(6)  Preparing topical presentations for direct services personnel, parent, and support staff workshops and inservice 
trainin g. 
d.  Supervisory responsibilities.   One CD teacher, lead or technician must be designated for each age category in center –
based settings or a maximum of two child groups within the age categories. A child group is composed of two caregiving 
employees and  the corresponding numbers of children assigned to their care. In facilities constructed using CDS standard 
designs, at least one CD teacher, lead or technician will be assigned to each child activity module regardless of the number 
of child groups within the module. Responsibilities will include: 
(1)  First line supervision to include assignment of duties, training, and evaluation.  
(2)  Carrying out additional management duties relating to operating the program as specified by the program director.  