
6  –  1. Voluntary retirement application will be amended to specifically state that the application is  submitted 
in lieu of elimination. Any matters the officer wants considered on the issue of grade determination may be 
submitted with the request for retirement in lieu of elimination.  
3 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official advises the officer that he or she has 30 calendar days to acknowledge in writing, to 
prepare a written statement or rebuttal, and/or to elect one of the options stated in step 2 of this table. Ad-
vises the officer of the least favorable discharge and characterization that he or she may receive. An of-
ficer separated solely for substandard performance will receive an honorable discharge (see para 4 -2a). If  

 Table 4  –  2 
Processing elimination of a probationary officer  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
separated for reason(s) under paragraph 4 -2b or 4 -2c, an officer may receive an under other than honora-
ble discharge. If an honor able or general (under honorable conditions) discharge is recommended, there 
will be no Board of Inquiry unless directed by the DASA (RB).  
4 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official advises the officer that he or she may consult with the local finance and accounting 
officer concerning possible entitlement to separation pay.  
5 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official advises the officer that if he or she requests resignation in lieu of elimination action, 
he or she will be separated as stated in steps 5a and 5b of this table.  
a. Not later than 30 calendar days after receipt of notification that request for resignation or discharge was 
approved (only when separated solely for substandard performance). Release will not be prior to the 30th 
day without the officer’s consent.  
b. Not later than 14 calendar days or earlier than 5 calendar days after receipt of notification that the re-
quest for resignation or discharge was approved when stationed in CONUS.  
For an officer assigned OCONUS (except as stated in step 5 a of this table), he or she will be returned to 
the CONUS separation TC no later than 21 calendar days after receipt of written notification that the re-
quest for resignation or discharge was approved and will be separated no later than 5 calendar days a fter 
arrival at the CONUS TC.  
6 C&S The GOSCA personally signs the memorandum.  
7 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The GOSCA furnishes a copy of the notification memorandum directly to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). 
8 Soldier  The officer responds with acknowledgment of receipt (see fig 2  –  4). Submits a written statement or rebuttal 
and/or elects and submits an option at step 2 of this table to the initiating officer within 30 calendar days.  
a. The statement or rebuttal may be prepared with the assistance of an officer of the JA GC or civilian 
counsel obtained by the officer at no expense to the Government.  
b. The statement or rebuttal should contain any pertinent facts bearing on the question of the officer’s elim-
ination. Documents submitted must be legible and reproducible. They  may be sworn or unsworn.  
c. Undergo a separation physical examination within 5 duty days if an option is selected.  
9 C&S The initiating official (CG, HRC, or the GOSCA, as appropriate), on receipt of the officer’s statement or 
rebuttal and/or option selection, does as follows:  
a. Closes the case. Prior to closing cases initiated under paragraph 4- 18a(3) or 4 -18a(4), the CG, HRC, 
will coordinate with the initiating official. The GOSCA may only close a case that he or she initiated.  
b. If the officer elects one of the options listed at step 2, forwards the appropriate application and all elimi-
nation documents directly and expeditiously to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). Recommends approval or disap-
proval of the application and includes the POC (name and telephon e number).  
c. If the officer declines to elect one of the options, and an honorable or general discharge (under honora-
ble conditions) is recommended, forwards the case directly to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). Includes the POC 
(name and telephone number).  
d. If th e officer declines to elect one of the options and if an under other than honorable discharge is rec-
ommended, the elimination action will be processed under the procedures for a nonprobationary officer at 
table 4  –  1, steps 10 through 18, then return to st ep 10 of this table.  
If the case is not closed, determine whether medical board or PEB proceedings are pending or appropri-
ate (see para 4- 3a). 
10 PPAA (TC)  On receipt of separation instructions, take action to separate the officer. Final release orders and forms 
cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 