
5  –  8.  CDC staff training  
a.  IDPs.   IDPs will be developed and implemented for CDC personnel according to paragraph  3  –  18. 
b.  Caregiving employees training.   The TACS assigned to the CDC delivery system, in conjunction with the CDC 
director and CDS coordina tor will establish and conduct training for all CDC caregiving employees. Training topics will 
include child growth and development, child health and nutrition, developmental programming, discipline techniques, 
parent relations, space utilization for child  activity areas, regulatory compliance, implementation of family style meal 
service, child abuse identification and reporting, safety, center operational procedures, and other subjects as determined 
by the CDC/program directors and the CDS coordinator. Tra ining will be conducted as follows:  
(1)  All newly hired CDC caregiving employees will complete — 
(a)  Eight hours of orientation prior to being assigned to duty in any CDC program. This training does not count toward 
the initial 38 hours training requireme nt. 
(b)  Sixteen hours work in a program area under the direct supervision of experienced caregiving employees prior to 
being solely responsible for assigned children.  
(2)  All CDC caregiving employees will complete 38 hours of training in the first 9 months of employment.  
(a)  The following entry level training will be completed within the first three months of hire: 
1.  Three credit hours in communicable diseases.  
2.  Two credit hours in first aid, to include recognizing and responding to Sudden Infan t Death Syndrome for all direct 
services employees caring for infants.  
3.  Three credit hours in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).  
4.  Two credit hours in child abuse and neglect identification and reporting as specified at p aragraph  5–8f. 
5.  Three credit hours in DOD Training Module Series 6060.1.  
6.  Three credit hours in related topics.  
(b)  The following skill level training will be completed within the next 6 months of hire:  
1.  One credit hour in DOD Training Manual 6060.1, Caring for Infants, Toddlers, Preschoolers, or School –age Chil-
dren.  
2.  One credit hour in DOD Training Manual 6060.1, Creating Environments for Infants, Toddlers, Preschoolers, or 
School –age Children.  
3.  Two credit hours in preventing child abuse  in CDC settings.  
4.  Two credit hours of observations.   

 5.  One credit hour in classroom environment assessment workshop and four credit hours classroom environment as-
sessment.  
6.  Two credit hours in special project(s).  
7.  Ten credit hours in related top ics. 
(c)  Following completion of initial training, CDC caregiving employees will complete at least 24 hours of inservice  
training annually. A minimum of 6 hours of training will be completed each quarter. The content of this training will be 
determined by the individual and TACS with the approval of the program director and may be organized to support staff member efforts t o obtain the Child Development Associate (CDA) credential outlined at paragraph  5–8c below. DA Form 
5764
 –  R and the IDP Annual Inservice Training and Review format will be used to plan and record this training.  
(d)  Caregivi ng employees who work with children with unique care requirements will be trained as follows prior to 
providing such care:  
1.  Mainstreamed special needs care (six credit hours).  
2.  Respite care (three credit hours).  
3.  Information pertinent to the specified handicapped as appropriate.  
c.  CDA credential program.   No later than FY91, all CDC systems will offer opportunities for CDC caregiving person-
nel to obtain the nationally recognized CDA credential. (Priorities for the credential should be placed on caregivers and program assistants, with CDC teachers and CDS management personnel participating as resources permit.) Appropriate 
training will be provided to installation TACS by USACFSC (CFSC
 –  HR  –  T) for this purpose, however this training is not 
prereq uisite for implementation.  
d.  Food service personnel.   CDC food service personnel will receive training in child nutrition, menu planning, food 
handling, food borne disease control, food preparation, and food service sanitation practices that comply with TB Med 530 
and USDA CACFP guidelines.  
e.  Administrative personnel.   CDC receptionists, operations clerks, and caregiving employees who are directly involved 
with child admissions will receive specialized training on relating to parents, interfacing with c ommand and the general 
public, and recognizing common communicable disease and illness. CDC receptionists and operations clerks will complete 
the same Red Cross Accident Prevention and Emergency Response Course Modules as required for caregiving staff in t he 
entry level IDP.  
f.  Special CDC staff training.   Special attention will be given to training CDC staff in the identification, reporting and 
prevention in child abuse in both the CDC and in the family setting. All training will be coordinated with the A FAPM and 
will include both written and verbal guidance. The AFAPM will support and provide training, assume major responsibility for training on identification and reporting procedures, and serve as a resource person to CDC management personnel.  
(1)  Entry  level child abuse training (two credit hours) will focus on child abuse, child neglect, identification, and re-
porting. This training will include the following:  
(a)  Definition of child abuse, child neglect, institutional child abuse.  
(b)  Signs and sympt oms (behavior and physical) of child abuse.  
(c)  CDC internal and external reporting procedures.  
(d)  Legal obligation to report abuse.  
(e)  Applicable standard operating procedures.  
(f)  Parent access policy.  
(g)  Distinguishing between child abuse/neglect and poor caregiving practices.  
(h)  Guidance on release of children to unfamiliar adults or to older siblings.  
(i)  Parent/center partnership in the identification and prevention of child abuse.  
(2)  Skill level training (two credit hours) wi ll focus on preventing child abuse in CDC settings and include the follow-
ing: 
(a)  Use of CDC Child Abuse Risk Assessment Tool (CARAT).  
(b)  Room arrangements and staffing patterns to minimize risk of child abuse.  
(c)  Discipline concerns related to child abuse/prohibited forms of punishments.  
(d)  Field trip and security procedures.  
(e)  Touch policy.  
(f)  Prevention of abuse and protecting self from false allegations.  
(g)  Applicable standard operating procedures if allegations occur in CDC setting.  
(h)  Stress factors relative to child abuse.  
(i)  Developmental expectations/supervision factors related to child abuse.  
(3)  The standard training modules, staff brochure and accompanying video provided by CFSC
 –  SF  –  CY will be used as 
the basis of this training.   

 g.  First aid and CPR training.   The American Red Cross Accident Prevention and Emergency Response Training 
Course developed specifically for CDS purposes should be used to meet IDP requirements for First Aid and CPR training. 
The following training instruction blocks must be covered regardless of the training agency.  
(1)  CDC caregiving employees must take the following training:  
(a)  Emergency action principles.  
(b)  Wounds.  
(c)  CPR.  
(d)  Communicable diseases.  
(e)  Accident prevention.  
(2)  Designated and lead staff must take the following training in addition to those in (1) above:  
(a)  Specific injuries.  
(b)  Sudden injuries.  
(c)  Bandaging.  
(d)  Burns.  
(e)  Administering medication.  
h.  The health consultant will be the proponent for all training on administering medications and preventing communi-
cable diseases. The materials used and the content of the training will be the responsibility of the MTF representative.  
i.  All training for caregiving staff will be competency based (e.g., train ing is presented/structured in such a way that the 
knowledge and skills taught can be observed during the provision of care).  
j.  See paragraphs  3  –  17 through 3  –  20 for IDP and general training guidance.  
k.  Caregivers will complete the modules contained in the Caregiver Training Program during Foundation Level Train-
ing. 