
6  –  14.  Service obligations  
a.  Generally, an officer who completes certain formal education or training programs accepts career status, a certain 
promotion, or a PCS and incurs an ADSO (see AR 350  –  100). Normally, an officer must be able to fulfill the ADSO 
on or before the effective date of retirement. However, the retirement authority may grant nonstatutory waivers. Each 
request  will be on a case -by-case basis.  
b.  An RC officer requesting voluntary retirement in lieu of elimination action is not subject to this paragraph (see 
para 4  –  20). 
c.  An RA warrant officer scheduled for mandatory retirement may accept an ADL promotion to pay grade CW3, 
CW4, or CW5 without incurring ADSO. Retention of these warrant officers beyond their mandatory retirement date 
is not authorized.  
d.  An officer assigned OCONUS on an unaccompanied tour must be able to complete 12 months of the officer’s 
tour on or before the effective date of retirement.  
e.  An officer on an accompanied tour (when dependents travel at government expense) must be able to complete 
12 months of the officer’s tour from the date the depen dents arrive in the overseas command. This ADSO does not 
preclude the officer from completing the prescribed tour length in accordance with AR 614  –  30. The 12- month over-
seas restriction does not apply to an RC officer applying for retirement in conjunctio n with REFRAD under the pro-
visions of chapter  2 of this regulation.  
f.  The DCS, G  –  1 or designee may defer the voluntary retirement of an officer assigned to a critical position until a 
replacement is available through the normal requisitioning cycle. A request for an officer’s deferment must include 
the justification (see AR 350  –  100).  
g.  The DCS, G  –  1 or designee may waive a nonstatutory ADSO for the convenience of the Army or when substan-
tial or undue hardship will result to the officer. The waiver request must be documented with detailed justification. 
When the best interest of the Army is involved, the following should be considered when processing the request for 
retirement:  
(1)  Retirement in lieu of elimination  under chapter  4 of this regulation or in lieu of other unfavorable personnel 
action justifying a waiver of the service obligation.  
(2)  Retirement of any officer nonselected for promotion to CW3, CW4, CW5, or lieutenant colonel.  