
3  –  8.  Resignation due to pregnancy  
a.  An officer may tender a resignation due to pregnancy. The CG, HRC, is the final approval authority in cases that 
do not involve a statutory ADSO.  
b.  When it has been d etermined that an officer is pregnant, the officer will be counseled by the officer’s immediate 
commander or the executive officer. The counselor will explain to the officer that the purpose of the counseling is to 
provide the officer with information conc erning the officer’s rights, entitlements, and responsibilities with respect to 
continued AD or separation. The counselor will not influence or direct the officer to any particular entitlements and/or 
options. A statement of counseling will be signed by th e counselor (see fig 2  –  2). This counseling is a command 
responsibility. A copy of the Statement of Counseling will be filed in the officer’s MPF.  
c.  Normally, an officer will not tender a resignation for pregnancy until the officer has completed the initial service 
obligation incurred from the funded program under which the officer was commissioned. When extenuating circum-
stances exist, a request for an exception to policy may be submitted. However, the officer must  accept an indefinite 
appointment in the USAR to complete the service obligation. The officer will be assigned to the U.S. Army Control 
Group (Standby). The change of status from RA to RC is to be accomplished without a break in service.  
d.  Separation ins tructions on approved requests will be issued by HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), to the appropriate MPD.  
e.  As applicable, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER) will return disapproved 
requests through channels to the officer.  
f.  A pregnant officer’s discharge will be honorable. A DD Form 256 will be furnished based on the officer’s mili-
tary record.  
g.  The steps required for processing resignation due to pregnancy are shown in table  3  –  4. 
 
Table 3  –  4 
Resignation due to pregnancy  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Informs the commander of pregnancy and is thinking of resigning. Provides supporting medical documen-
tation.  
2 SACT  
BN S  –  1 
C&S On confirmation of an officer’s pregnancy, the officer will be advised of the following rights and responsi-
bilities:  
a. Option to remain on AD or to request separation.  
b. Entitlement to maternity care even if separated (see AR 40  –  400).  
c. Provisions for leave and absence during and after pregnancy (see AR 600  –  8  –  10). 
d. Provisions for maternity clothing.  
e. Policy governing availability for worldwide assignment (see AR 614  –  30). 
f. Local policies governing entitlements to government Family quarters and basic allowance for subsist-
ence, to include when and how the officer would be eligible.  
g. Policies governing assignment overseas (see AR 614  –  30). If accompanied by dependent(s), require-
ment to make suitable arrangements for the unaccompanied evacuation of the dependents(s)  in an emer-
gency (for example, mobilization).   

 Table 3  –  4 
Resignation due to pregnancy  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
h. On PCS, the Government will pay for the child’s transportation only when — 
(1) Traveling to, from, or between OCONUS permanent station when the officer serves or has been ap-
proved to serve a “with dependents”  tour and the child is command sponsored.  
(2) Traveling to an OCONUS station, the officer must have approval of the OCONUS commander for con-
current travel of the child.  
i. Availability of legal assistance counseling concerning paternity laws governing child support, passports, 
visa requirements, and birth registration for OCONUS, if applicable.  
j. If the officer remains on AD, the necessity of careful planning for the child’s care without sacrifice of the 
officer’s military responsibilities. The officer  must consider the following:  
(1) Who will care for the child during duty hours, alerts, field duty, and roster duty? Consideration should 
be given to the cost of child care.  
(2) Plans for housing, access to duty, transportation arrangements and availabili ty of telephone.  
(3) Consideration of financial obligations that will accrue for child care, housing, transportation, and other 
emergency needs and how these obligations will be met.  
k. Provisions for submission of a dependent care statement of counseling on the birth of the child, if appli-
cable (an officer with less than 3 years of service).  
l. Provisions authorizing separation of an officer whose substandard performance of duty is not solely at-
tributable to the condition of pregnancy.  
3 SACT  Requests that counselor sign the pregnancy counseling statement and file it in the officer’s MPF (see fig 
2  –  2). 
4 Soldier  Submits resignation request if the officer so desires (see fig 3  –  3). 
5 SACT  
BN S  –  1 
C&S Processes the request. Ensures counseling listed  in step 2 of this table has been accomplished. The re-
quest will be forwarded through channels to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A); TJAG (DAJA  –  PT); or OCCH 
(DACH  –  PER), as applicable. The request will include the following:  
a. A brief synopsis of the counseling session.  
b. Date officer reported on current tour of AD; type, effective date, and date of termination of current AD 
commitment.  
c. Whether officer is occupying a key position and if a replacement is required.  
d. Whether medical board or PEB proceedings ar e pending or appropriate.  
e. Whether the officer is currently undergoing a course of instruction that upon completion or termination 
will result in an ADSO. Specify course title, beginning and closing dates, and service obligation incurred.  
f. Whether responsible for public property or funds.  
g. Recommendation for approval or disapproval. Include complete justification when approval is recom-
mended and the officer has not fulfilled a service requirement. Also include justification for disapprovals.  
h. Statement that the officer is not under investigation or charges, awaiting result of trial, being considered 
for administrative elimination, AWOL, or in the hands of civil authorities.  
i. Date officer departed CONUS or other area of residence for OCONUS assi gnment. Date of arrival 
OCONUS of dependents, whether at government or personal expense, whether logistical support was fur-
nished, and the rotation date, if applicable.  
6 SACT (TC)  Upon receipt of separation instructions, processes officer for separation.  Final orders and forms will cite 
regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 