
4  –  6.  Admission criteria  
a.  Registration requirements.  
(1)  Parents or guardians will complete and sign or provide a copy of the following forms for each child:  
(a)  DA Form 4719  –  R. 
(b)  DA Form 5222  –  R. 
(c)  DA Form 5223  –  R. 
(d)  DA Form 5224  –  R. 
(2)  Where applicable, the parent or guardian will submit the following:  
(a)  USDA CACFP enrollment forms (U.S. only)  
(b)  Family Care Plan  
(c)  DA Form 5226  –  R. 
(3)  DA Form 4719  –  R, DA Form 5222  –  R, DA Form 5226  –  R, and the USDA CACFP Enrollment Form must be com-
pleted prior to provision of child care services.  
(4)  DA Form 5223  –  R, DA Form 5224  –  R and the Family Care Plan must be completed within 30 days of enrollment 
or service may be denied.  
(5)  DA Form 5226  –  R will be used within the FCC system, full– day and part –day center –based programs, and any 
regularly scheduled SPS programs.  
b.  Child health requirements.  
(1)  Children accepted for care in CDS programs must — 
(a)  Be free of communicable diseases.  
(b)  Have documentation or record of all age appropriate immunizations as determined by MTF and based on the Advi-
sory Committee on Immunization practices.  
(c)  Have had a health assessment completed by parents and medical staff within the past calendar year or within 30 
days following enrollment. Child’s placement may not be dependent only on test results. The physical examination wil l 
be completed once upon admission, and the form update and initialed annually by the parent. If the parent indicates a 
significant change in the child’s health status, a current medical examination will be required.  
(2)  A waiver of the immunization requirement must be approved in writing by the Chief, Preventive Medicine or health 
consultant. Parents must be counseled that children with waivers will be excluded from the program in the event of vaccine 
preventable communicable disease outbreak.  
c.  The CDS  coordinator/system directors will determine registration requirements in emergency care situations. Re-
quirements will be documented in the emergency SOP.  