
6  –  21.  Specialized training  
a.  Child abuse and neglect.   Special attention will be given to training FCC providers in the identification, reporting, 
and prevention of child abuse both in the FCC home and the family setting. All training will be coordinated with FAPM  

 and will include both written and verbal guida nce. The FAPM will support and provide training, assume major responsi-
bility for training on identification and reporting procedures, and serve as a resource person to FCC management personnel.  
(1)  Precertification child abuse training (two credit hours) will focus on child abuse and neglect/identification and re-
porting, and will include the following:  
(a)  Definition of child abuse, child neglect, institutional abuse.  
(b)  Signs and symptoms (behavioral and physical) of child abuse.  
(c)  FCC system internal and external reporting procedures.  
(d)  Legal obligation to report child abuse.  
(e)  Applicable standing operating procedures.  
(f)  Distinguishing between child abuse/neglect and poor caregiving practices.  
(g)  Parent access policy.  
(h)  Guidance on rel ease of children to unfamiliar adults or to older siblings.  
(i)  Parent/provider partnership in the identification and prevention of child abuse.  
(2)  Certification training (two credit hours) will focus on preventing child abuse in FCC homes.  
(a)  Use of the FCC Child Abuse Risk Assessment Tool (CARAT) to minimize risk of child abuse.  
(b)  Discipline policies/concerns related to child abuse.  
(c)  Touch policy.  
(d)  Use of substitute providers.  
(e)  Preventing the appearance of abuse and protecting self and  family members from false allegations.  
(f)  Field trip procedures.  
(g)  Applicable standing operating procedures if allegations occur in FCC home.  
(h)  Stress factors related to child abuse.  
(i)  Developmental expectations/supervision factors related to child abuse.  
b.  First aid and CPR training.   The American Red Cross Accident Prevention and Emergency Response Training 
Course developed specifically for CDS purposes should be used to meet IDP requirements for first aid and CPR training. 
FCC providers must receive the following first aid and CPR training instruction blocks of instruction regardless of the 
training agency:  
(1)  Emergency action principles.  
(2)  Wounds.  
(3)  CPR.  
(4)  Communicable diseases.  
(5)  Accident prevention.  
(6)  Specific injuries.  
(7)  Sudden injuries.  
(8)  Bandaging.  
(9)  Burns.  
(10)  Administering medication.  
c.  Health consultant.   The health consultant will be the proponent for all training on administering medications and 
preventing communicable diseases. The material s used and the content of the training will be the responsibility of the MTF 
representative.  
d.  Special endorsements.   Additional training will be required for all FCC special endorsements.  
(1)  Extended hours/overnight and long term care: (one credit hour).  
(2)  Mildly ill care: (two credit hours).  
(3)  Respite/emergency care: (two credit hours) to be determined locally in coordination with the health consultant.  
(4)  Mainstreamed special needs care: (two credit hours minimum or more) to be determined by the Special Needs 
Resource Team.  
e.  Special purpose homes.   Additional training will be required for FCC providers who operate special purpose homes:  
(1)  Special needs homes: (eight credit hours) to be determined by the Special Needs Resource Team.  
(2)  Newborn/infant homes: (two credit hours) special health and caregiving procedures issues including parent/child 
bonding.  
(3)  HIV: (two credit hours).  
(4)  Bilingual homes: (one credit hour) cultural issues and parent relations.  
(5)  Sick child homes: (two  credit hours) to be determined locally in coordination with the health consultant.   

 Section IV  
Program Operations Compliance Requirements  