
3  –  4.  Routing  
a.  Resignations under paragraphs 3  –  9 and 4  –  11(h)(2), of this regulation must be processed through the GOSCA 
or through the GCMCA and must include a minimum of an O  –  6 command level recommendation. These actions will 
be routed to that commander through the same channels as court -martial actions. The GOSCA or  GCMCA will for-
ward the resignation with the recommendation for elimination and comments directly to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). 
Additionally, an information copy of the correspondence will be forwarded to interested higher headquarters (for 
example, ACOM/ASCC/D RU) in the chain of command.  
b.  Resignations under paragraph  3  –  5 and paragraph  5  –  6 will be forwarded through normal administrative channels 
to HRC. For resignations under paragraph  3  –  5, forward to Commander, Human Resources Command 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400; The Judge Advocate General 
(DAJA  –  PT), 2200 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2200; or Office of the Chief of Chaplains (DACH  –  PER), 
2700 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2700, as applicable. The officer’s immediate commander will send 
resignations under paragraph  3  –  8 directly to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), or the applicable judge advocates or chaplains. 
Resignations under paragraphs 3  –  5 and 5  –  6 will be processed as follows: In those commands where the normal ad-
ministrative channels include a headquarters exercising GCM authority, that headquarters will — 
(1)  Forward resignations under paragraph  3  –  5 as stated in paragraph  3–4b, and under paragraph  5  –  6 directly to 
Commander, Human Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 
40122  –  5400.  
(2)  Provide copies of the action to interested higher headquarters (for example, ACOM/ASCC/DRU) or route ac-
tion through higher headquarters as required by the chain of command.  
c.  In those commands authorized to deal directly with HQDA on routine personnel matters and those administrative 
channels that do not include a headquarters that exercises GCM jurisdiction, the commander m ay designate, in writing, 
the subordinate units or activities in the command that may forward these separation requests directly to HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), or agency shown in paragraph  3–4b. Principal officials of HQDA Staff agencies are included in 
this category concerning class II installations under their control. The headquarters designated will ensure that the 
request is complete and correct. Resignations under this paragraph will be in writing and an information copy of the 
resignation will be sent to Commander, Human Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division 
Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400. The first forwarding endorsement will contain the following:  
(1)  Recommendation for approval or disapproval an d type of discharge to be furnished. If approval is recom-
mended and the officer has not fulfilled the service requirements specified in paragraph  3  –  5, complete justification 
will be included. Similarly, recommendations for disapproval will state reasons.  
(2)  Statement that none of the conditions in paragraph  1–12c exist or if any do exist, a complete explanation.  
(3)  Statement that necessary action has been or will be taken to adjust and clos e any public property or financial 
accounts of the officer concerned.  
(4)  Report of any recent misconduct of the officer concerned that had not been previously reported to HQDA. Any 
serious misconduct committed or discovered subsequent to the endorsement will be reported to HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) in an expeditious manner.  
(5)  If the officer is serving OCONUS, statement of whether he or she is accompanied by dependents and the date 
the officer will complete the OCONUS tour.  
(6)  If the officer is serving OCO NUS and requests separation OCONUS, recommendation concerning such request. 
If disapproval is recommended, reasons will be given. If approval is recommended, include a positive statement that 
the foreign country concerned specifically consents to separatio n in that country.  
(7)  Statement that the officer is physically qualified for separation or that the officer will be scheduled for medical 
examination according to paragraph  1–24a, as appropriate.  
(8)  Succeeding forwarding  endorsements will contain recommendations for approval or disapproval and type of 
discharge certificate to be furnished.  
(9)  For additional information required, see pertinent paragraph for each type of resignation.  