
2  –  7.  Voluntary release from active duty due to hardship  
a.  An officer may be released from AD due to extreme personal or Family hardship. Hardship exists in circum-
stances involving death or disability of a member of the Soldier’s (or spouse’s) immediate Family, or when separation 
from the Service will materially affect the care or support of the Family by alleviating undue and genuine hardship. 
The officer must clearly establish that one of the followin g applies: 
(1)  The hardship is permanent and did not exist prior to entry on AD.  
(2)  If the hardship existed prior to entry on AD, the condition has since intensified and can only be alleviated by 
separating from AD.  
(3)  Upon REFRAD the officer will be able to eliminate or materially alleviate the condition.  
b.  If the application has been disapproved by CG, HRC; TJAG; or Office of the Chief of Chaplains (OCCH), a 
new application will not be submitted under the same authority unless there is new material evidence to support reap-
plication.  
c.  If the application is approved, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) or HRC (AHRC  –  AR), as applicable, will forward sepa-
ration instructions to the appropriate MPD. If the officer was commissioned through a funded program (for example, 
AMEDD, Funded Legal Education Program (FLEP), U.S. Military Academy (USMA), ROTC, or a special procure-
ment program) or is a training recipient, recoupment may be required on a prorated basis.  
d.  If the application is disapproved, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), OCCH (DACH  –  PER), or HRC 
(AHRC  –  AR), as applicable, will return the application to the officer through channels.  
e.  The steps required for processing voluntary REFRAD due to hardship are shown in table  2  –  3. 
 
Table 2  –  3 
Processing voluntary release from active duty due to hardship  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Submits REFRAD request for hardship with supporting documents to commander 90 calendar days prior 
to the requested release date (see fig 2  –  1). 
2 SACT  
BN S  –  1 Processes the request. Ensures counseling is accomplished as stated in paragraph 1  –  14. The request 
will include — 
a. The officer’s reason for requesting hardship REFRAD.  
b. A brief synopsis of the counseling session.  
c. Date officer reported on current tour of AD; type, effective date, and date of termination of current AD 
commitment.  
d. Whether officer is occupying a key position and a replacement is required.  
e. Whether services of the officer have been such as to entitle him or her to be released from AD under 
honorable conditions.  
f. Whether medical board or PEB proceedings are pending or appropriate.  
g. Whether the officer is currently undergoing a course of instruction that will result in an  ADSO upon com-
pletion or termination. Specify course title, beginning, and closing dates, and ADSO incurred.  
h. Whether responsible for public property or funds.  
i. Recommendation for approval or disapproval and characterization of service. Include complet e justifica-
tion when approval is recommended and the officer has not fulfilled an ADSO. Also include justification for 
disapprovals.  
j. Statement that the officer is not under investigation or charges, awaiting result of trial, being considered 
for adminis trative elimination, AWOL, or under the control of civil authorities.  
k. Date officer departed CONUS or other area of residence for OCONUS assignment. Date of arrival 
OCONUS of dependents, whether at government or personal expense, whether logistical support was fur-
nished and the rotation date, if applicable.  
3 BN S  –  1 
C&S Reviews and makes recommendation. Forwards the request through channels to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A),  

 Table 2  –  3 
Processing voluntary release from active duty due to hardship  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as applicable, for final action. A request submitted by an of-
ficer temporarily in CONUS from an OCONUS command will be forwarded directly to HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as applicable, for final action.  
4 SACT (TC)  Receives separation instructions and separates the  officer. Final release orders and separation forms will 
cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 