
5  –  2.  Structure and policy  
The CDC system will  reflect installation needs for program services according to the analysis process described for con-
struction justification in paragraph 2  –  17. Comprehensive services will include a full range of full –day, part –day and hourl y 
care programs, and child –age group categories as determined through installation needs assessments and demographics in 
paragraph 2 –17d. 
a.  Full– day program.   The full –day program includes CDC developmental services that m eet the needs of working 
parents requiring child care 5 to 12 hours per day on a regularly scheduled basis. It will include program provisions for 
infants, toddlers, and preschool –age children where demand exists. School –age children may attend on a full –day basis at 
times of public school recess.  
(1)  Total enrollment of full– day children, including infants, may exceed up to 10 percent of child activity room/ module 
capacity or age group assignment to compensate for a reduced average daily attendance due t o absenteeism.  
(2)  Programs designed for full –day care will provide a stable environment that is responsive to the child’s developmen-
tal needs for consistency. The program will be staffed with a majority of regularly scheduled caregiving employees who will be assigned to specific groups of children as specified at paragraphs  5
 –  13 and 5  –  14. 
(3)  Full–day slots of absent, regularly enrolled children may not be filled by other children attending on an intermittent 
basis except in small centers according to paragraph  5–2b(4). 
(4)  Newborn infants, up to six weeks, of  single or dual military sponsors, may be served in CDC settings when the 
following conditions are met:  
(a)  Placement in FCC newborn home is not possible.  
(b)  Maximum group size within child activity room or module home base is limited to seven children under one year 
of age ( table  5  –  1). 
(c)  A 1:2 adult/child ratio is maintained with these infants with no more than two newborn children included in the 
group of seven infants.  
(d)  Exposure to multiple caregivers will b e limited.  
(e)  Newborn infants will not be combined with other groups during early morning arrival and end of day departure 
periods or in a multi –age setting.  
(5)  Children enrolled in full– day preschool –age programs will not leave their activity room/mod ule to attend a separate 
part–day preschool –age program. The quality of full –day and part –day preschool –age programs will be equivalent so as  

 to eliminate the need for parents to enroll children in more than one program. Program reorganization to include r edistri-
bution of personnel, space allocation, and program resources may be necessary to achieve this comparability.  
b.  Hourly care program.   The hourly care program includes developmental services for children that meet the needs of 
parents requiring short term child care on an intermittent basis. Hourly care services will include program provisions for 
infant, toddler, preschool –age, and school –age children where demand exists.  
(1)  Hourly care services will be provided by reservation to ensure cost e ffective scheduling of personnel. A well –
publicized system for reserving and canceling care arrangements will be established to enable use of last minute canceled space by patrons waiting for hourly care on a space available basis. Walk –in care may be prov ided as space is available.  
(2)  Hourly care services are not intended to replace requirements for full or part –day care. When demands for care do 
not conform to full or part –day program schedules, an adjustment in operating hours of these programs may be appropriate 
to meet patron needs and preclude allocation of hourly care spaces to meet this requirement. The CDC director will ensure 
that hourly care spaces are retained for short term intermittent services. These spaces will not be filled by full or part –day 
overflow patrons requiring services on a regular basis.  
(3)  A minimum number of hourly slots should be available for soldiers needing child care services while in processing, 
for emergency situations and to support installation volunteers. (See para 4–6c for admission requirements.) This number 
will be recommended by the CDC director and CDS coordinator and approved by the installation commander. Command-
ers may dedicate these spaces; however any loss of income incurred s hould be made up from the installation MWR fund 
rather than increased fees for other CDC patrons.  
(4)  Hourly care services will be physically separated from full –day and part –day services either by designating specific 
areas within the same facility or by  separate facilities. This requirement may be waived in centers with less than a 60 –
child –space capacity, in which case provisions will be made to stabilize the environment to the greatest extent possible for 
children enrolled on a regular basis. Children enrolled in hourly care and full –day care programs which occupy a single 
facility may be combined up to 11⁄2 hours during early morning arrival and end of the day departure time periods.  
(5)  Programs for hourly care will be developmentally appropriate and  will maintain a flexible environment that will 
reduce separation anxiety and facilitate program adjustment to an ever –changing clientele of children and parents.  
c.  Part–day program.   All part– day programs include developmental services up to five hours a day that meet the needs 
of parents requiring child care on a regularly scheduled part –day or seasonal basis. Part –day programs include part –day 
self contained programs for preschool children ages 3 through 5, school –age care programs (that is, before and  or after 
school, summer programs) for children 5 through 12, and part –day child care to meet the needs of parents working outside 
the home (for example, parents employed part time, enrolled in an educational program part time, or employed as shift workers ) with children (6 weeks –12 years old).  
(1)  Part–day sessions for children up to 5 years of age should be a minimum of three hours in duration and should not 
exceed 5 hours. When waiting lists for full –day care exist, expansion of part –day program hours or reduction of space 
allocated to part –day sessions should be considered as a means of addressing the full –day unmet demand.  
(2)  Demands for part –day preschool –age care should not be satisfied without ensuring large scale unmet demands for 
full–day care are similarly addressed. Space allocations for center programs will be analyzed to ensure preschool programs 
are not utilizing an amount of activity space inconsistent with program mission and installation priorities for service.  
(3)  Part–day preschool programs will support, as necessary, the requirements of working parents who do not require 
full–day care, parents who augment FCC services with center –based part –time programs, and regular short –term care 
requirements for installation volunteers. The directo r of the part –day program will keep data which reflects such use of 
this program.  
(4)  Part–day school –age (PDSA) programs offered by the CDC will be limited to care for children 5 through 12 years 
of age. Children may attend before and after school and at tend on a full –day basis at times of public school closure. CDC 
programs appropriately serve ages 5 through 8 years; care for ages 9 through 12 may be more easily met through the SAS program.  
(a)  This program is supervised by the CDC part –day program dire ctor within the CDC setting and is not part of the 
SAS program.  
(b)  The part –day program director will coordinate closely with the SAS coordinator to preclude duplication of efforts 
and maximize program integration. PDSA children may be included in transp ortation arrangements made for children 
enrolled in the SAS program.  
(c)  Funding for the before/after PDSA program will be provided through the CDC budget.  
(5)  Kindergartens are not authorized where there is a center waiting list for care of younger chil dren.  
(6)  When scheduled hours of operations do not overlap, part –day preschool and school –age programs should double 
function space and staff whenever possible. This will be done to upgrade program quality and increase facility and program resource use. Adequate built –in or portable storage must be provided to maintain separate age appropriate supplies and 
program materials.   

 (7)  Total enrollment of part– day preschool and school –age programs may exceed up to 10 percent of child activity 
room/module capacity or age group assignment to compensate for a reduced average daily attendance due to absenteeism.  
d.  Special needs program.  
(1)  Special needs programs in center settings may be offered as follows:  
(a)  Full–day services for children who do not qu alify for State or local special needs programs or when these services 
do not exist.  
(b)  Part–day services to augment State or local programs or to supplement mainstreaming in Army programs.  
(c)  Hourly services as part of EFMP respite care.  
(2)  When spe cial needs programs are provided in CDC settings, the installation should pursue external funding through 
grants, State reimbursements, or other available means to help offset the potentially higher operating costs involved ( para 
4–2a(4)). 
Section II  
Program Management Compliance Requirements  