
5  –  13.  Age composition, ratios, and group sizes  
All CDC programs will be staffed and grouped accordin g to the minimum mandatory ratios and group sizes in table 5  –  1. 
Installations may set more stringent adult/child ratios.  
a.  Ratios.  
(1)  An adequate number of caregiving employees must be present to protect the children’s health and safety, ensure 
opportunities for child and adult personal interactions, and provide developmental program activities. When ratios are  

 exceeded in programs due to a shift in child population, additional caregiving employees must be on –call an d used as 
necessary to maintain required adult/child ratios.  
(2)  Adult/child ratios will be met at all times of the day, indoors and outdoors, with the following exceptions:  
(a)  Adult/child ratios may be doubled during naptime (except for infants aged 6 weeks to 12 months), if caregiving 
employees required for maintaining ratios are involved in staff or program development activities on –site. 
(b)  If handicapped or special needs children are enrolled, the adult/child ratio may need to be more stringent so  that the 
quality of care given to the total group is not diminished. The Special Needs Resource Team will determine the required 
adult/child ratio within the program setting to which such a child is assigned according to paragraph  4–2a(4)(a). 
(3)  Grouping of children in one year age spans is discouraged. Children should be placed using mixed age grouping, 
blending ages using the specified ratio for each age served (e.g., a combination of 1:5 pretoddlers and 1:7 toddler s for a 
bridge group of 12 pretoddlers, and toddlers with 2 ratio clusters). Generally, mixed age grouping includes an age range 
of two years. Ratio clusters refer to the number of primary caregiver/child clusters the room accommodates.  
(a)  5 infants/8 to ddlers: group size of 13.  
(b)  8 toddlers/10 preschool age: group size of 18.  
(c)  5 infants/8 toddlers/10 preschoolers: group size 23.  
(4)  Adults may not be counted in the adult –child ratios unless they are physically present in the child activity room/ 
module and providing direct care to children. Student help under 18 years of age and volunteers may not be counted in determining compliance with staff per child ratio.  
(5)  In situations where an immediate increase in caregiving employees is not possible,  CDC support and management 
personnel may be used to provide direct caregiving services for less than two hours daily on a temporary basis.  
b.  Group size.  
(1)  The size of groups in which children are cared for must be limited to support developmental programming and 
minimize the spread of disease within the center.  
(2)  The maximum number of children in the group to which children are assigned within the activity room/module will 
not exceed the limits specified in table  5
 –  1 or 5  –  2 as applicable.  
(3)  The group size requirements for each age group will be met at all times of the day except during playground periods 
and special activities such as field trips where the group size will not exceed more than 50 children or children from two 
modules.  
(4)  Maintenance of group size requires — 
(a)  Self–contained rooms.  
(b)  Dividers or other means of physical separation within a single room.  
(c)  Purposeful assignment of caregiving personnel and scheduling of program activities when team teaching approaches 
and/or standard child activity modules are utilized.  
c.  Rescinded.  
 
Table 5 –1 
CDC ratios and group sizes  
Category  Age group  Adult/Child ratio  Maximum group size  
Infants  Birth–6 wks1 
6 wks–12 mths  1:2 
1:4 6 
8 
Pre-toddlers  12 mths –24 mths  1:5 10 
Toddlers  24 mths –3 yrs  1:7 14 
Preschool age  3 yrs –5 yrs  
3 yrs –5 yrs2,3 1:10 
 20 
 
Family style  6 wks–5 yrs4 1:12 24 
School –age 5 yrs –8 yrs  
9 yrs –12 yrs  1:15 
1:15 30 
30 
Notes: 
1 Limited to children of single and dual military sponsors. Group will not exceed one adult with two newborns and one adult with four infants.  
2 A 22 group size for preschool age children is authorized when staff of that group includes a teacher (para 3 -13c) and a caregiver/program assistant.  
3 The 1:12 ratio and 24 group size may be used only when teachers are used.  
4 In a family style grouping, the adult/child ratio and group size requirements for the age of the youngest child in the group must be met if children in t he 
youngest age category makes up 20 percent or more of the group. If the children in the youngest age category makes up less than 20 percent of the group, 
the ratios and group size requirements for the next highest age category must be met. Maximum group sizes will be in accordance with para 5 –13b. 
5 Grouping of children in one year age spans is discouraged in accordance with paragraph 5 -13a(3).  
  

  
Table 5  – 2 
CDC ratios and group sizes (as of 1 Oct 90)   
RESCINDED  