
6  –  16.  Retirement in lieu of permanent change of station  
a.  Officers may request retirement in lieu of PCS when they have at least 19 years and 6 months AFS and a firm 
PCS alert is received. The retirement request must be submitted within 30 calendar days of the alert. When an alerted 
officer indicates  that he or she might exercise the option to retire in lieu of PCS, Career Division may initiate a request, 
with recommendation to approval authority CG, HRC, to disapprove or delay the retirement based on the needs of the 
Army.  
b.  Assignment alert is the  official notification of an impending assignment sent by writing, voice, email, or other 
medium from DA or HRC assignments officials to an officer. An assignment is considered “firm” when an officer has 
been selected to fill a valid requisition (that is, when and where the officer will be assigned).  
c.  All service obligations must be met (or waived) before retirement. The MPD will verify service obligations by 
contacting the officer’s career management division before forwarding the retirement request. Th e waiver request 
must be documented with detailed justification. Requests that are not forwarded through channels will be returned.  
d.  An officer retiring in lieu of PCS will normally remain at the same duty station until retirement unless the needs 
of th e service or local circumstances clearly require reassignment (for example, due to deletion of the position, reor-
ganization, or disciplinary problems). If possible, the officer will be reassigned within the same installation if there is 
a valid need. When this is not possible, the officer may be reassigned to the closest military installation where there is 
a valid need. An officer will not be reassigned exclusively for the purpose of being closer to the requested location of 
retirement.  
e.  The officer may  request the retirement to be effective any date not later than 6 months from the date of the PCS 
alert or the first day of the month after the officer attains 20 years AFS, whichever is later.  
f.  Once a retirement is approved, the appropriate career management division will revoke the PCS orders and notify 
the officer. The retirement will not be withdrawn nor will the effective date of the retirement be extended. However, 
a request for an earlier date will be considered on an individual basis.  
g.  On an a pproved retirement, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will notify the installation.  
h.  The steps required for processing retirement in lieu of PCS are shown in table  6  –  1. 
 
Table 6  –  1 
Processing retirement in lieu of permanent change of station  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 BN S  –  1 Notifies the officer of PCS alert or orders.  
2 Soldier  Receives notification of PCS alert or orders. Application for retirement must be submitted within 30 days 
of receipt of the alert or orders.  
3 SACT  a. Prepares and processes retirement application to include waiver, if required (see fig 6  –  2). 
(1) Interviews officer to obtain information for application.  
(2) Advises the officer of their responsibility to obtain a medical examination prior to the retirement date 
and that failure to complete it will not affect or delay the retirement but could affect later claims for ser-
vice-connected medical problems.  
b. Forwards the application through channels to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), or The Judge Advocate General 
(DAJA  –  PT), 2006 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2200; or Office of the Chief of Chaplains 
(DACH  –  PER), 2700 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2700, as applicable.   

 Table 6  –  1 
Processing retirement in lieu of permanent change of station  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
4 BN S  –  1 a. Commander having custody of applicant’s MPF or hospital commanders operating independent trans-
fer activities — 
(1) Verifies from available records and documents all information given in the application.  
(2) Ensures that the officer has read paragraph 1  –  24. 
(3) Ensures that prompt ac tion has been taken to adjust and close any public property or financial ac-
counts of applicants.  
b. Intermediate commanders review application to ensure compliance with chapter 6 of this regulation 
and forward with recommendation of approval or disapproval , together with statement that action is or is 
not in contravention with AR 600  –  8  –  2. Recommendation for disapproval will state reason.  
5 TC (TC)  Receives retirement packet and conducts retirement processing. Final separation forms will cite regula-
tory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 