
4  –  3.  Medical condition  
a.  An officer referred or recommended for elimination under this chapter who does not meet medical retention 
standards will be processed through both the provisions of this regulation and through the MEB/PEB process as de-
scribed in paragraph  1  –  25. 
b.  When it is determined the officer’s mental condition contributed to military inefficiency or unsuitability, the 
medical evaluation will include a psychiatric evaluation of the officer. This study will indicate whether the officer was 
able to distinguish right from wrong and whether the officer currently has the mental capacity to understand board and 
judicial proceedings and participate in defense. When applicable, the report will also indicate whether the incapacitat-
ing mental ill ness could have been the cause of the conduct under investigation.  
c.  Officers who exhibit a downward trend in overall performance that is documented within the Evaluation Report-
ing System and have had service -connected exposure to events that may have resulted in TBI or PTSD will be referred 
to behavioral health medical authorities for evaluation, in a manner consistent with applicable directives and regula-
tions, to determine whether the officer should be referred for an MEB. The results of these evaluati ons will be consid-
ered in determining whether officer separation is appropriate. These evaluations will be conducted in accordance with 
applicable policy on Command Directed Mental Health Evaluations (see DODI 6490.04).  
d.  An officer pending administrative separation under conditions other than honorable who has deployed overseas 
in support of a contingency operation during the previous 24 months, and who is diagnosed with PTSD and/or TBI, 
or who otherwise reasonably alleges the influence of such a conditi on based on their service while deployed or sexual 
assault, will be referred to behavioral health medical authorities for evaluation (see 10 USC 1177). The medical ex-
amination must assess whether the effects of PTSD or TBI constitute matters in extenuation  that relate to the basis for 
administrative separation under conditions other than honorable or the overall characterization of service of the officer 
as other than honorable.  
e.  At the time an officer is to appear before the Board of Inquiry, if he or s he does not possess sufficient mental 
capacity to understand the nature of the proceedings or does not behave or cooperate intelligently in defense, the  

 proceedings will be delayed until the officer recovers, or the officer will be processed through medical channels, 
whichever applies.  
f.  If a physical or mental condition develops after an officer has been recommended for involuntary separation or 
after the Board of Inquiry proceedings are completed, the officer’s commander will immediately notify HRC 
(AHR C  –  OPD  –  A). 