
4  –  16.  Actions concerning Board of Inquiry defects  
At any time after receipt and review of a case by  the GOSCA or CG, HRC, the following actions may be taken with 
respect to substantial defects that may be noted:  
a.  The retention of the officer may be directed.  
b.  If the Board of Inquiry has failed to make findings or recommendations required by the applicable regulations, 
the case may be returned to the same board for compliance with the regulations concerned. Section IV of the DA Form 
1574  –  2 (and the verbatim record, if required) must clearly state the member’s findings, to include a factual basis f or 
each finding. If the board members find that the officer did or did not engage in the conduct or acts as alleged on the 
notification letter, the findings should normally mirror the language in the notification letter and include the factual 
basis for th e finding. If the board’s findings differ slightly from the allegations on the notification letter, the finding 
must include the additional facts or deletions supporting the amended findings.  
c.  If there is an apparent procedural error or omission in the record of proceedings that may be corrected without 
reconsideration of the findings and recommendations of the board, the case may be returned to the same board for 
corrective action. Where the findings are deficient because they don’t state in detail the factual basis for the board 
members findings, the board may be reconvened to conduct deliberations in any manner sufficient for the members to 
discuss and memorialize their findings (see para 4–16b and para 4–15b(2)). Once the amended findings are reached, 
they must be provided to the respondent and counsel for comment and approved by the GOSCA prior to forwarding 
the package for further processing.  
d.  If the Board of Inquiry committed an e rror, other than as is dictated in paragraphs 4 –16b and 4–16c, that sub-
stantially prejudiced a substantial right of the officer, the case may be returned for a rehearing by a new board. The 
new board may be furnished the evidence properly considered by the previous board, including extracts from the 
record of testimony of those witnesses not deemed reasonably available to testify at the rehearing. The new board may 
call additional witnesses. Ne w allegations that could form the basis for an elimination under paragraph  4  –  2 may be 
presented to the new Board of Inquiry. First, however, the officer will be given notice of the new allegations and 
provided an opportunity to respond. The case will then be processed as stated in paragraph  4  –  18. The  new board will  

 not be advised of the findings and recommendations of the previous board. The new board’s findings and recommen-
dations may not be less favorable than that of the previous board unless additional allegations are considered. Like-
wise, the recommendation of the appointing authority may not be less favorable than initial recommendation, unless 
additional allegations are considered by the subsequent board.  
e.  When a case is returned to the board pursuant to paragraph 4 –16b or 4–16c, and one or more members of that 
board are unavailable because of factors such as death, hospitalization, or PCS, new members may be appointed. The 
case may proceed with an opportunity to challenge the mem bers and after the substance of all proceedings is made 
known to the new member or members and the recorded testimony of each witness previously examined is made 
known to the new member. No more than one rehearing may be directed by the GOSCA without approval from DASA 
(RB).  