
5  –  5.  Business operations 
CDC program directors will provide oversight of business operations to ensure budget execution, accountability for re-
sources, accurate and timely data collection, and implementation of sound business practices. Procedures outlined in AR 
215  –  1, AR 215  –  2, AR 215  –  3, AR 215  –  4, and AR 215  –  5 will be followed. A copy of these regulations will be maintained 
in each center setting. Supplemental forms and/or procedures required by this regulation will be followed.  
a.  Fiscal management.   Fiscal operations and productivity will be regularly monitored by the CDC director and reported 
in writing at least monthly to the CDS coordinator.  
(1)  CDC program directors will regularly analyze and report data which reflects progra m productivity through maxi-
mum use of resources (i.e., facility space, manpower, funding) to meet community demands for quality care. CDC produc-tivity reports may be used for this purpose. Additional guidance provided in the DOD Manual 6060.1 addresses eff ective 
management practices.  
(2)  CDC personnel will calculate utilization rates and costs per child per hour to determine CDC productivity. data 
required for analysis of productivity can be generated using the CDS program management software package as available.   

 (3)  CDC program directors should prepare and submit a monthly Management Information System report which re-
flects, at a minimum, Central Accounting Office financial statement categories of income and expense by program type.  
b.  Food service oper ational oversight.   The CDC center director will supervise the center food service program, with 
operational oversight provided by the food service manager on large installations, to ensure provision of a quality food 
program.  
c.  Internal controls.   The c enter director will establish and enforce procedures to ensure implementation of CDS inter-
nal controls as specified by AR 11  –  2. 
d.  Property inventories.   Current inventories for NAF and APF equipment will be maintained as required. Prior to man-
agement turnover of the hand receipt holder, a 100 percent inventory will be conducted and a change of hand receipt 
initiated.  
e.  Information for tax deductions.  
(1)  Receipts will be maintained for the purpose of tax deduction documentation for parents to file w ith their yearly 
income tax return. Prior to the end of the calendar year, parents will be notified in writing of the advantage of submitting their child care tax deduction and of the center procedures for obtaining necessary documentation.  
(2)  Parents sh ould be notified of the installation agency responsible for assistance in completing their tax returns and 
referred to this agency for further assistance. CDC personnel will not enter child care costs on individual tax returns.  