
6  –  17.  Certification status  
CDS at the installation level will have proponency  for the FCC certification process. Certification of each FCC provider 
will be approved by the installation commander or designee based upon the recommendation of the CDS coordinator.  
a.  FCC homes will be classified in the following five categories: registered, provisionally certified, fully certified, in-
active and waiting. Requirements and definitions are as follows:  
(1)  Registered status.   Family members who have applied for entry to the FCC system and are in the process of com-
pleting the requireme nts for provisional certification will be considered to be registered for caseload purposes. FCC pro-
viders in this category may not accept children for care other than their own children or legal dependents. Registered FCC 
providers must complete all precertification requirements within 60 days of receipt of approved background clearances. 
Potential FCC providers who fail to complete pre –certification requirements in a timely manner may be dropped from the 
FCC system.   

 (2)  Provisional status.   The provisional certification period will last a minimum of 6 months but no longer than 12 
months. Provisional certification will be extended to FCC providers who have satisfactorily completed or furnished evi-
dence of the following:  
(a)  DA Form 5219  –  R. 
(b)  Record o f medical evaluation.  
(c)  Background check information.  
(d)  Training requirements.  
(e)  Home inspection compliance.  
(f)  Contingency plans for accidents, fire evacuation and emergency.  
(g)  Emergency care plan.  
(h)  Statement of understanding for FCC requirements.  
(i)  Statement of understanding for claims program.  
(j)  Spouse/adult family member agreement.  
(k)  Written program policies to include discipline.  
(l)  Consent for home inspections.  
(3)  Full certification status.   Full certification will be extended to FCC providers who meet all provisional requirements 
and have furnished evidence of compliance with the following:  
(a)  CDS minimum standards (DA Form 4841  –  R). 
(b)  Training requirements (see paras  3  –  17 and 3  –  18). 
(c)  Home visits by FCC management personnel to verify an acceptable level of care is being provided.  
(4)  Inactive status.   FCC providers who have completed all the requirements for full or provisional certification, but 
who choose not to provide care will be placed on inactive status. In this case, the FCC provider’s certificate and DA Label 176 (Family Child Care Certified Home Identification Card) will be returned to the FCC office and kept on file in the event 
the FCC provider wishes to resume care. FCC providers in an inactive status who re– enter the program will comply with 
the following provisions:  
(a)  The FCC provider will resume care only if there is a vacancy in the number of homes authorized for the FCC 
director/outreach worker caseload. If no opening exists, the FCC provider’s name may be entered on the waiting list ahead 
of first time applicants.  
(b)  Health requirements must be update and a new background check done with the Crimes Records Center and the 
Central Registry if more than 120 days has elapsed since provision of care.  
(c)  Any changes in the FCC provider’s status must be reported (see para 2
 –  20). 
(5)  Waiting status.   When the caseload for FCC director/outreach worker is at maximum level, potential FCC providers 
will be placed on a waiting list until an opening becomes available.  