
2  –  13.  Involuntary release from active duty by the Department of the Army Active Duty Board  
a.  The DAADB (qualitative) is the Army’s tool for ensuring that only an RC officer who consistently maintains 
high standards of performance, efficiency, morality, and professionalism is permitted to serve on AD. The Director, 
Military Review Boards at the ARBA will operate the DAADB. Approval authority to release or retain an officer 
under this paragraph is SECARMY or his or her designated representative. Their decisions are final.  
b.  The DAADB is one part of the Army’s total “loss management” program.  
c.  Local commanders; CG, HRC; OCAR; Chief, NGB; TJAG; or the Department of the Army Chief of Chaplains 
(DACH) may recommend that an RC officer be considered by a DAADB to d etermine if the officer’s manner of 
performance, degree of efficiency, or misconduct constitutes consideration for involuntary separation. Files referred 
to the DAADB will be identified according to the following criteria: 
(1)  Less than 18 years of active federal service (AFS) on the projected separation date.  
(2)  Evidence of a significant act or condition of misconduct or moral or professional dereliction.  
(3)  Degree of efficiency.  
(4)  Manner of performance, when compared to contemporaries, particularl y in recent years of service.  
(5)  Relative potential for useful service.  
(6)  The presence of unfavorable information, with primary consideration to the most recent years of service and 
repetitive tendency.  
(7)  No established release date within 6 months  of notification of referral for consideration by the DAADB.  
d.  Demonstrated significant acts or conditions of misconduct or moral or professional dereliction may be one or 
more of the following or similar acts or similar conditions:  
(1)  Discreditable or  intentional failure to meet personal financial obligations.  
(2)  Mismanagement of personal affairs detrimentally affecting the performance of duty of the officer concerned.  
(3)  Mismanagement of personal affairs to the discredit of the service.  
(4)  Intentional omission or misstatement of fact in official statements or records for the purpose of misrepresenta-
tion. 
(5)  Acts of personal misconduct (including, but not limited to acts committed while in a drunken or drug intoxicated 
state).  
(6)  Intentio nal neglect or failure to perform duties.  
(7)  Conduct unbecoming an officer.  
(8)  Conduct or actions resulting in the loss of a professional status, such as withdrawal, suspension, or abandon of 
professional license, or endorsement or certification which is directly or indirectly connected with the performance of 
one’s military duties and necessary for the performance thereof, including withdrawal of clinical privileges for an 
AMEDD officer.  
(9)  Acts of behavior not clearly consistent with the interests o f the national security.  
(10)  Conduct or actions by a warrant officer resulting in the loss of special qualifications (such as withdrawal or 
revocation of Criminal Investigation Divisions accreditation, revocation of marine qualification license, removal from 
the Personnel Reliability Program, withdrawal of clinical privileges or loss of flying status), which directly or indi-
rectly precludes a warrant officer from performing their military occupational specialty (MOS) and is necessary for 
MOS performance. The REFRAD based on these reasons may not be utilized if reclassification action is feasible and 
in the best interest of the service or if loss of special qualification was due to medical reasons beyond the control of 
the warrant officer. In these cases, a statement from the career management division, citing the reasons the officer 
cannot be reclassified, must be a part of the evidence considered by the board.  
(11)  Failure to respond to rehabilitation efforts regarding acts of child/spouse maltreatment or  abuse and/or other 
acts of Family violence.  
e.  While not all inclusive, existence of one or more of the following or similar conditions authorizes the release 
from AD of an officer because their degree of efficiency and manner of performance is substandard. The DAADB 
action will be initiated for conditions under paragraphs 2 –13e(7), 2–13e(9), and 2 –13e(10) or elimination action will 
be initiated for the same conditions under paragraph  4  –  2.  

 (1)  Downward trend in overall performance resulting in an unacceptable record of efficiency or a consistent record 
of mediocre service.  
(2)  Failure to keep pace or to progress with contemporaries, such as successive promotion failure or a low record 
of efficiency when compared with another officer of the same grade, branch, and length of service.  
(3)  Failure to exercise necessary leadership or command expected of an officer of their  grade.  
(4)  Failure to assimilate technical proficiency required of the officer’s grade.  
(5)  Failure to discharge properly assignments commensurate with the officer’s grade and experience.  
(6)  Apathy, defective attitude, or other character disorders to include inability or unwillingness to expend effort.  
(7)  Failure to respond to rehabilitation efforts regarding an alcohol or other drug problem in a reasonable length of 
time (see AR 600  –  85). 
(8)  Failure to conform to prescribed standards of dress, pe rsonal appearance, and military deportment.  
(9)  Failure to achieve satisfactory progress after enrollment in the Army weight control program or failure to main-
tain established weight/body fat standards after removal from an established weight control prog ram (see AR 600  –  9). 
This provision does not include those judge advocates and AMEDD officers who have incurred a statutory ADSO for 
participating in Army sponsored education and training programs. These programs are the FLEP (see 10 USC 2004), 
Armed Forc es Health Professions Scholarship Program, or the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences 
(see 10 USC Chapters 104 and 105).  
(10)  When no medical problems exist, and an officer has two consecutive failures of the Army physical fitness test 
(APFT). This provision does not include those judge advocates and AMEDD officers who have incurred a statutory 
ADSO for participating in Army sponsored education and training programs. These programs are the FLEP (see 10 
USC 2004), Armed Forces Health Profes sions Scholarship Program, or the Uniformed Services University of the 
Health Sciences (see 10 USC Chapters 104 and 105).  
f.  A DA Form 268 (Report to Suspend Favorable Personnel Actions (Flag)) will be initiated when an officer is 
identified for DAADB act ions (see AR 600  –  8  –  2). 
g.  An officer who will complete 18 or more years of AFS on scheduled release date will not be processed under 
this paragraph, unless such action is approved by SECARMY or designee.  
h.  The officer will be notified in writing by CG, HRC; OCAR; or Commander or designee for Chief, NGB; TJAG; 
or DACH, as appropriate, through the general officer show cause authority (GOSCA) (a GOSCA could also be the 
initiating officer if DAADB is field -initiated) that their record is being referred to the DAADB to be considered for 
involuntary REFRAD (see fig  2  –  3). The initiating officer will initiate the DA Form 268.  
i.  The initiating officer (must be at GOSCA or higher level) will consider the officer’s rebuttal and either close the 
case and notify the officer, or forward the case with the officer’s rebuttal (if submitted) to the Commander, Human 
Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400. If the initi-
ating officer decides to forward the DAADB to the CG, HRC for further processing, the initiating officer also will 
consider whether the respondent should be eliminated from the service under chapter  4 of this regulation. If  the initi-
ating officer determines that elimination may be warranted, the DAADB initiating officer will instead initiate an elim-
ination action under chapter  4 of this regulation. If the DAADB initiating officer determines  that the respondent should 
not be eliminated, but merely considered for release from AD by the DAADB, the initiating officer will make a written 
recommendation to that effect, addressing the respondent’s potential for future service. If the case is not cl osed, HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) forwards the case to Director, Army Review Boards Agency (SFMR  –  RBL  –  LC), 251 18th Street 
South, Suite 385, Arlington, VA 22202  –  3531.  
j.  The ARBA will convene DAADB. The board will forward cases with recommendations to SECAR MY or des-
ignated representative for the final decision. Officer cases approved for retention in the Army will be sent to the 
Commander, Human Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 
40122  –  5400, and closed favorably. Officer cases approved for release from AD will be sent to the Commander, Hu-
man Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400, for 
REFRAD processing.  
k.  HRC; OCAR; Chief, NGB; TJAG; or DACH, as applicable, will notify the officer through channels that the 
DAADB selected him or her for retention.  
l.  HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), will forward the necessary documentation for officers not on the ADL to HRC.  
m.  HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), or HRC (AHRC  –  AR), will issue and forward REFRAD instructions to the appropriate 
MPD when SECARMY or designated representative approves the involuntary separation of the officer.  
n.  If SECARMY (or designee) directs the release from AD of an ARNGUS or USAR officer, HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will notify the CG, HRC or the Chief, NGB, according to the officer’s component, that the officer 
has been released from AD. The CG, HRC or the Chief, NGB, may consider an officer released from AD under the  

 DAADB procedures for separation based upon the same conduct. The mere fact that an officer has been released from 
AD by DAADB procedures is not adequate basis to require an officer to show cause for retention in the service.  
o.  SECARMY or designee is the final approving authority on all DAADB cases.  
p.  An officer approved for involuntary REFRAD by the SECARMY — 
(1)  For misconduct, moral dereliction, or professional dereliction and is — 
(a)  Assigned in CONUS, will be released from AD no earlier than 5 calendar days and no later than 14 calendar  
days after the officer receives written notification.  
(b)  Assigned OCONUS, will be returned to the CONUS separation transfer point no later than 21 calendar days 
after the officer receives written notification, and released from AD no later than 5 calend ar days after arriving at the 
CONUS separation TC.  
(2)  Solely for substandard performance of duty will be released from AD no later than 30 calendar days after the 
officer receives written notification. The officer will not be released prior to the 30th d ay without consent.  
q.  While separations under this paragraph are involuntary, there is no entitlement to separation pay (except para 2–
13r unless specifically authorized for half separation pay by AR 637  –  2). 
r.  When budgetary or authorization limitations require a reduction of the officer strength, the DAADB may be 
convened under the instructions of SECARMY or designee to determine which officers will be separated. These of-
ficers are not considered ineffective or subs tandard in duty performance, their release is determined solely on the 
needs of the service. Officers designated for release from AD under this paragraph may be released on any date be-
tween the date of notification and the established mandatory release dat e of the officer. The officer will not be released 
prior to the established date without consent. Early release will have no effect on entitlement to separation pay.  
s.  The steps required for processing involuntary REFRAD by the DAADB are shown in table  2  –  9. 
 
Table 2  –  9 
Involuntary release from active duty by the Department of the Army Active Duty Board  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S A field commander may recommend through channels to the GOSCA that DAADB be initiated on a partic-
ular officer. If the GOSCA supports the DAADB action, A request will be made in writing to HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A); HRC (AHRC  –  AR); TJAG; or OCCH, as applicable, to provide two copies each of the 
officer AMHRR and officer record brief (ORB). The GOSCA forwards the DAADB notification memoran-
dum, including the officer’s AMHRR and ORB, to the officer (see fig 2  –  3). 
2 Soldier  Upon receipt of DAADB notification memorandum, from either HQDA or the GOSCA, completes and for-
wards the acknowledgment of notification within 24 hours (see fig 2  –  4). Reviews data provided and for-
wards rebuttal (if desired) within 30 calendar days from receipt of notification memorandum. Rebuttal may 
be forwarded directly or through channel s as desired by the officer. If forwarded directly, send to the initi-
ating office (HQDA or the initiating GOSCA) by certified mail.  
3 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S When the officer forwards the rebuttal through channels, commanders may review. Documents, com-
ments, or  recommendations will not be added. The last endorser will forward the rebuttal by certified mail 
to the initiating office (HQDA or the initiating GOSCA). The initiating officer will consider the officer’s rebut-
tal and either close the case and notify the officer, or forward the case with the officer’s rebuttal (if submit-
ted) to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). 
4 PPAA ARBA  HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) forwards AD board action, officer’s rebuttal and officer’s AMHRR to ARBA. ARBA 
conducts DAADB. SECARMY’s designee, generally the DASA (RB), determines whether officer will be 
retained or released.  
5 PPAA (TC)  Upon receipt of separation instructions, processes officer for separation. When the officer desires an early 
release, has the officer complete the memorandum as shown at f igure 2  –  5 and places it in the officer’s 
MPF as a permanent document. Final release orders and forms will cite regulatory authority and SPD as 
shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 