
7  –  19.  Volunteer services in CDS programs  
a.  The SPS delivery system will provide a central point for recruiting, managing, training, and referral of vo lunteers in 
all CDS systems. The SPS director will—  
(1)  Develop an SOP for services of volunteers in CDS programs which includes — 
(a)  Program management and operation.  
(b)  Personnel criteria.  
(c)  Training.  
(d)  Child abuse identification, prevention, and response procedures.  
(e)  Recordkeeping.  
(2)  Serve as the CDS POC with the installation volunteer coordinator (IVC).  
(3)  Ensure CDS volunteers are processed through the IVC.  
(4)  Attend IVC Advisory group meetings as required.  
(5)  Ensure all regular ly scheduled CDS volunteers complete a program application which requires at least two personal 
references and includes the following:  
(a)  A waiver authorizing background checks.  
(b)  Information about arrest or conviction records.  
(c)  Information about interests and child rearing practices including discipline.  
(d)  Experience directly or indirectly related to child care.  
(6)  Interview potential CDS volunteers to determine interest and qualifications.  
(7)  Coordinate placement of regularly scheduled CDS  volunteers based on volunteers’ desires and available positions.  
(8)  Provide CDS volunteers with a written description of duties and a handbook outlining CDS policies and procedures.  
(9)  Ensure volunteers sign the Gratuitous Service Agreement according to AR 215  –  1. 
(10)  Coordinate with all CDS system directors to determine specific program needs for these services and the personnel 
and training requirements for CDS volunteers in CDS programs.  
(11)  Determine needs for CDS volunteer services to support  the SPS system.  
(12)  Maintain records on all CDS volunteers to include — 
(a)  Signed copy of Gratuitous Service Agreement.  
(b)  Verification of compliance with CDS volunteers requirements (i.e., health certification, training, background 
checks).  
(c)  Number of CDS volunteers and hours of gratuitous service per CDS program.  
(d)  Information on the CDS volunteers’ interests and abilities.  
(13)  Schedule and/or provide CDS volunteer training as specified in local CDS volunteer SOP. Training will as a min-
imum, include a 2 –hour orientation class, to include discipline procedures, identification and reporting of child abuse, and 
overall program policies.  
(14)  Provide CDS volunteer information necessary for the completion of DA Form 5246  –  R to each CDS progr am 
director and CDS coordinator as applicable.   

 (15)  Provide documentation of service to the CDS volunteers upon termination of those services. Documentation will 
include total service hours, copy of CDS volunteer’s position description(s), and recommendat ions from appropriate CDS 
management and staff personnel.  
b.  See paragraph  3  –  15 for the role of the CDS volunteer in the CDS delivery systems.  
c.  CDS volunteer services in CDS programs will be evaluated in the ICCET.  