
7
 –  27.  Volunteer child care in unit settings (VCCUS) 
VCCUS allows free child care services to be provided by family members in one military unit or organization for family 
members in another military unit or organization, in exchange for similar services at a future, mutually agreed upon time.  
a.  The child care services must be provided in the same facility or immediately adjacent to  the building in which the 
unit or organization function is being held and parents must be in attendance onsite at the same function.  
b.  CDS facility standards do not apply to VCCUS sites. The SPS director, site facility manager, and proponents for fire, 
health, and safety will evaluate the site to ensure basic health and safety needs are met according to local SOPs.   

 c.  Parents must remain on or immediately adjacent to the building premises and be immediately accessible to their own 
children throughout the duration of the VCCUS session.  
d.  All members of units or their spouses designated to provide care will attend an SPS orientation class prior to provid-
ing services. The class will be a minimum of 4 hours and will include developmental activities, positive discipline tech-
niques, and basic health and safety practices. Course attendance is required one time only.  
e.  Adult/child ratios and group sizes will be maintained according to the age group ratios for center –based services. 
Additional adults are stron gly recommended.  
f.  Children should not be accepted with obvious signs of illness. Immunizations should be current.  
g.  The SPS director will assist VCCUS operations by — 
(1)  Working with the units to develop an SOP for VCCUS sessions which includes at a minimum — 
(a)  A description of services offered.  
(b)  Unit responsibilities.  
(c)  SPS responsibilities.  
(d)  Facility criteria.  
(e)  Volunteer caregiver requirements.  
(f)  Training.  
(g)  Child health and admission requirements.  
(h)  Snack/meal requirements.  
(i)  Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.  
(2)  Providing required training prior to provision of care.  
(3)  Providing a CDS volunteer who has met the first aid training requirements.  
(4)  Ensuring unit commanders are informed about VCCUS  and its requirements.  
(5)  Providing technical assistance to enable units to provide quality care to the children.  
(6)  Periodic on –site monitoring while VCCUS session are in progress to ensure ratios are maintained and appropriate 
activities are offered.  
(7)  Providing age appropriate toys and equipment on a check –out basis from the SPS or FCC resource/toy lending 
library.  
(8)  Maintaining records on VCCUS usage. Records will include number of volunteers trained, number and ages of 
children served, number s and ranks of sponsors served, number of VCCUS sessions held, and annotated summary of 
sessions offered.  
h.  VCCUS sessions will be evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron satisfaction surveys.  