
2  –  27.  Management procedures for minimizing the potential risk of abusive situations in FCC homes  
The following management procedures will be implemented in FCC homes to minimize the risk of abusive situat ions 
occurring in FCC homes.  
a.  FCC management personnel will observe the following during regularly scheduled and unannounced visits to FCC 
homes:  
(1)  The behavior and appearance of the children.  
(2)  FCC provider/child interaction including indicators of stress or behavior problems.  
(3)  Guidance techniques.  
(4)  General organization and condition of the home including the noise level and excess clutter.  
(5)  Unsupervised care.  
(6)  Evidence of an adequate food supply.  
(7)  Behaviors of FCC provider’s o wn children which could lead to physical harm or neglect of others.  
(8)  Financial instability which could lead to stress or neglect.  
(9)  General resistance of FCC provider to guidelines or regulation.  
(10)  Other conditions that could lead to higher stre ss. 
(11)  Presence of other adults or teenagers and their interactions with the children.  
b.  Immediate action will be taken to defuse potential problems.  
c.  FCC providers will be encouraged to form support groups to improve communication and reduce isola tion. 
d.  FCC providers will be encouraged to use substitutes during times of stress or extra family demands which might 
increase the potential for abuse.  
e.  New FCC providers should be assigned to experienced FCC providers who volunteer as sponsors/advis ors. 
f.  FCC management personnel will ensure FCC providers have — 
(1)  A daily sign –in/sign –out sheet where parents sign when a child enters and leaves.  
(2)  A written outdoor play and supervision policy.  
(3)  A policy restricting use of alcohol and smokin g by family members during FCC care hours.  
(4)  Written fee policies and provisions for late arrivals, long term care (if provided), meal policies, and FCC provider 
absence and vacations.   

 g.  FCC providers who have teenagers living in the home will be advi sed to ensure adequate supervision to protect 
children in care and teenagers from unwarranted allegations of abuse.  
h.  Parents will have access to their children within the FCC home at all times of program operation.  
i.  For other detailed guidance, refer  to the following:  
(1)  Specialized child abuse prevention education, see paragraph  2  –  29. 
(2)  Daily admission and release procedures, see paragraph  4  –  8. 
(3)  Discipline, see paragraphs  4  –  10 and 6  –  25. 
(4)  FCC provider and home certification, see paragraphs  6  –  9 thru 6  –  21. 
(5)  Staffing patterns, see paragraph  6  –  27. 
(6)  Program oversight for FCC providers, see paragraph  6  –  34. 
(7)  Supervision of children, see paragraph  6  –  28. 
(8)  FCC provider and home compliance, see paragraph  6  –  35. 
(9)  Investigation of complaints, see paragraph  6  –  37. 
(10)  Unauthorized care, see paragraph  6  –  38. 
(11)  FCC Risk Assessment Tool, see paragr aph 6  –  52. 