
2  –  28.  CDS touch policy  
a.  An installation CDS touch policy will be developed for application in all CDS settings. The policy will be coordi-
nated, at a minimum, with the ACS FAPM, Social Work Services, and Staff Judge Advocate offices. The touch policy will 
be accessible to all CDS employees and FCC providers, be incorporated into orientation training, and will be available in 
written form for CDS parents.  
b.  The CDS touch policy will address, at a minimum, appropriate and inappropriate  touches.  
(1)  Appropriate touching involves — 
(a)  Recognition of the importance of physical contact to child nurturance and guidance.  
(b)  Adult respect for personal privacy and personal space of children.  
(c)  Responses affecting the safety and the well –being of the child (e.g., holding hand of child when crossing the street; 
holding child gently but firmly during a temper tantrum).  
(d)  CDS employees and FCC providers modeling appropriate touching. (Note. Examples of appropriate touching in-
clude hugs, la p sitting, reassuring touches on the shoulder, and naptime backrubs.)  
(2)  Inappropriate touching involves the following:  
(a)  Coercion or other forms of exploitation of the child’s lack of knowledge.  
(b)  Satisfaction of adult needs at the expense of the child.  
(c)  Violation of laws against sexual contact between adults and children.  
(d)  An attempt to change child behavior with adult physical force, often applied in anger.  
(e)  The reinforcement concept with child of “striking out” to respond to a proble m. 
 (Note: Examples of inappropriate touching include forced goodbye kisses, corporal punishment, slapping, striking or 
pinching, tickling for prolonged periods, fondling or molestation.)  
 
c.  Because boundaries for appropriate and inappropriate touch have often been undefined, CDS management personnel 
must discuss these issues with CDS employees and FCC providers prior to the provision of care to ensure a correct under-standing.  