
2  –  9.  

 (4)  Follow up telephonic checks of former employers or professional references listed (up to a maximum of two) will 
be made by CDS management personnel to verify or clarify the following items for employee and FCC provider applicants. 
(OCONUS MACOMs may develop a policy for alternative solu tions to telephonic checks if necessary.)  
(a)  Position responsibilities.  
(b)  Reasons for leaving.  
(c)  General work aptitude and habits.  
(d)  Concerns noted in the pre –employment interview.  
(5)  Telephonic checks will be made by the Civilian Personnel Of fice to solicit information from personal references.  
c.  Quality assurance procedures.  
(1)  Applicants may not be hired or provisionally certified until all records checks have been satisfactorily completed. 
A conditional appointment may be made for employees/contractors contingent on favorable CID, NAC/NACI and SCHR inquires provided Line of Sight Supervision (LOSS) by a cleared employee is in place at all times. The use of video 
monitoring equipment in child occupied areas monitored by a cleared emp loyee will also satisfy the LOSS requirement. 
Activity managers must certify that LOSS can be accomplished for the selected employee on the applicant referral form. 
LOSS may not be used for certification of FCC providers.  
(2)  CDS management personnel will take appropriate action in accordance with paragraph  2–22a and AR 215 for CDC 
personnel, and paragraph  2–22b for FCC applicants and FCC family members when instances of misconduct involving 
children, assaultive behavior, substance abuse, larceny or related misconduct are revealed during screening or performance 
of duty. When such actions are required, the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) and CPO should be consulted for guidance.  
(3)  New center –based caregiving personnel will be closely monitored for the first six weeks of employment in accord-
ance with paragraph  5–16b. 
(4)  New center –based caregiving personnel will be monitored and whenever possible should not work al one with chil-
dren until the National Agency Check is completed.  
(5)  CDS management personnel will take appropriate action in accordance with paragraph  2–22a and AR 215 for CDC 
personnel, and par agraph  2–22b for FCC applicants and FCC family members when instances of misconduct involving 
children, assaultive behavior, substance abuse, larceny or related misconduct are revealed during screening or performance 
of duty. When such actions are requi red, the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) and the CPO should be consulted for guidance.  
d.  Intermittent and flexible employees.   All CDC Program Directors should have a sufficient number of intermittent and 
flexible employees who have met the background screeni ng requirements, available to fill in for emergency situations.  
e.  Active duty members.   Active duty military members applying for a position in a CDC will not be required to have a 
NAC.  
f.  Volunteers.   Volunteers may be placed in CDS system prior to com pletion of background checks since they always 
work with CDS employees or providers and are never left alone with children.  