
3  –  9.  Resignation for the good of the Service in lieu of general court- martial  
a.  An officer may submit an RFGOS in lieu of GCM under the following circumstances:  
(1)  Court -martial charges have been preferred against the officer with a view toward trial by GCM and until action 
by the convening authority on the findings and sentence in a case where the officer has been convicted.  
(2)  When the conveni ng authority in taking initial action on a sentence from a court -martial suspends an adjudged 
dismissal, the officer may submit a RFGOS during the period of suspension of the dismissal.  
(3)  A decision  by the DASA (RB) or higher authority to disapprove a RFGOS does not preclude the officer from 
submitting a subsequent RFGOS at any time prior to the initial action by the convening authority on a case or, in case 
of an approved but suspended sentence, to a dismissal during the period of suspension.  
b.  The tender of a RFGOS does not preclude or suspend procedures. A convening authority will not, however, take 
action on the findings and sentence in such cases until SECARMY or designee has acted on the RFGOS .  

 c.  An officer under court -martial charges or under investigation with a view toward court- martial will be retained 
on AD until final disposition of the charges or investigation or until the officer’s RFGOS is approved.  
d.  The commander will ensure that  RFGOS is voluntary and that applicants are—  
(1)  Provided the opportunity to consult with legally qualified counsel who is a member of the JAGC or a civilian 
counsel retained by the officer at own expense.  
(2)  Allowed a reasonable period of time to consi der requesting a RFGOS.  
(3)  Provided the procedures and considerations under 10 USC 1177, if applicable (see paras 1 –24c, 1–24d, and 4 –
3d regarding which applic ants this law may apply to).  
e.  A RFGOS will be expeditiously forwarded by the commander exercising GCM jurisdiction direct to HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), as outlined in paragraph  3  –  4. Court -martial proceedings may be continued u ntil action by the con-
vening authority on the findings and sentence of the court. A convening authority will not take action in a case until 
SECARMY or delegate acts on the RFGOS. In the event trial is held prior to the time notification of action is taken  
on the RFGOS, the convening authority will immediately transmit to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) the result of the trial, 
including sentence adjudged.  
f.  The RFGOS along with the officer’s AMHRR and ORB without recommendation will be forwarded by HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) to the DASA (RB) (SFMR  –  RB  –  LC).  
g.  When the RFGOS is not accepted, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will return the case to the GOSCA and provide copies 
to HRC (AHRC  –  MSP  –  F) and the appropriate career management division.  
h.  Separation instructions on approved cases will be issued and forwarded by HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) to the ap-
propriate MPD. HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will provide a copy of the separation orders to the DASA (RB) 
(SFMR  –  RB  –  LC). 
i.  An officer separated under this paragraph normally receives characterization of service of under other than hon-
orable conditions.  
j.  An officer who resigns for the good of the Service (regardless of the character of service received) is barred from 
rights under laws administrated by the  Veterans Affairs based on the period of service from which the officer resigned. 
Exceptions are War Risk, U.S. Government (converted), National Service Life Insurance, or Service Member’s Group 
Life Insurance (see 38 USC 1965).  
k.  The steps required for processing RFGOS in lieu of GCM are shown in table  3  –  5. 
 
Table 3  –  5 
Resignation for the good of the Service in lieu of general court -martial  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Submits RFGOS (see fig 3  –  4). 
2 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 Processes RFGOS and forwards through the same channels as court -martial actions to the commander 
exercising GCM jurisdiction.  
3 C&S The commander exercising GCM -jurisdiction includes a recommendation of approval or disapproval  and 
recommended characterization of service and type discharge. A recommendation of disapproval must 
include justification. Forwards the packet to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). An information copy of the packet 
will be forwarded to interested higher headquarters (for example, ACOM/ASCC/DRU) in the chain of 
command. An RFGOS submitted by an officer after court -martial charges are preferred will be expedi-
tiously forwarded by the commander exercising GCM jurisdiction direct to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) as out-
lined in paragraph 3  –  4. In addition to the information required by paragraph 3  –  4 and figure 3  –  4, the data 
as listed in steps 3a through 3 f of this table will accompany the RFGOS (all such data submitted must be 
legible). Court -martial proceedings may be continued  until action by the convening authority on the find-
ings and sentence of the court. A convening authority will not take action in a case until SECARMY or 
delegate acts on the RFGOS. In the event trial is held prior to the time notification is received, the con-
vening authority will transmit to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), by electronic message, the result of trial including 
any sentence. Also included will be the following:  
a. Copy of court -martial charges.  
b. Copy of all reports of investigations, to include UCMJ,  Art. 32 investigation (if conducted).  
c. Any documentary evidence that supports acceptance of the resignation.  
d. Statement signed by staff judge advocate (or legal officer) in cases referred for trial as required by 
Manual for Courts -Martial.  
e. Psychiat ric evaluation when grounds exist indicating the officer is (or was at the time of misconduct) 
mentally incompetent.   

 Table 3  –  5 
Resignation for the good of the Service in lieu of general court -martial  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
f. Explanation of abnormal delay between date of offense, completion date of investigation, and submis-
sion of resignation (if applicable). Forward the packet to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). An information copy of 
the packet will be forwarded to interested higher headquarters in the chain of command.  
4 C&S When the RFGOS while under suspended sentence to dismissal is submitted, the commander exercis-
ing GCM jurisdiction includes in the packet a copy of the court -martial order. When a copy of the court -
martial order is not available, or if further misconduct is involved, include a summary of the facts in the 
forwarding endorsement. Forward the packet to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). An information copy of the 
packet will be forwarded to interested higher headquarters in the chain of command.  
5 PPAA (TC)  Upon receipt of separation instructions, separates the officer not later than 14 calendar days after receipt 
of notification (when officer is stationed in CONUS), or not later than 5 duty days after the officer arrives 
at the CONUS TC. Forwards the officer’s fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) ac-
cording to AR 190  –  47. Final orders and forms will cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 
635  –  5  –  1. 