
7  –  1.  General  
a.  Chapters  1 through 4 apply to the programs and services in the SPS system with the exception of statements referring 
specifically to Army operated FCC homes or CDCs.  
b.  SPS programs will meet the system component requirements specified in chap ter 5 and chapter  6 for the type of care 
setting i.e., center –based or quarters –based care unless the requirements are waived or specified differently within this 
chapter. In center –based settings, CDC facility standards are waived when parents are on –site or immediately accessible 
for the duration of the child care session. However, installation fire, safety, health, and SPS proponents must certify that 
the site meets basic safety and health needs according to local SOPs.  
c.  The SPS delivery system will provide common support services for existing CDC and FCC systems, offer optional 
programs and services to supplement the CDC and FCC services when there is an unmet demand for child care, and serve 
as an alternative delivery system at remote sites or small installations where  establishment of a CDC or FCC homes is not 
feasible.  
d.  SPS will be implemented as an alternative child care delivery system to the extent necessary to augment and support 
the CDS CDC and FCC delivery systems. Selected SPS options may be implemented in r emote sites in lieu of CDC and 
FCC systems when child population is not large enough to support a CDC and/or homes are not available for quarters –
based services.  
e.  The SPS system centralizes the coordination of some common services i.e., parent education , central registration, 
and training and referral of CDS volunteers, monitoring family care plans, coordination of CDS support role in training 
exercises and mobilization plans. This coordination role is necessary to allow the CDC and FCC delivery systems to focus 
on basic quality assurance factors needed to ensure the health, safety and well being of children in care.  
f.  Retention of first term soldiers is influenced by the attitudes of family members perceptions of the responsiveness of 
the Army to meet family needs. Critical reenlistment periods coincide with soldiers’ major child rearing years. Many of 
the SPS child care options are low cost and promote soldier retention by allowing military families to participate more 
fully in military life i.e., as v olunteers, through attendance at command functions and unit sponsored events, and as patrons 
of ACS and morale, welfare and recreation services.  
g.  SPS provide or support a balance of quality care options that are affordable, convenient to the work site, and readily 
accessible to military and civilian families. Many SPS options — 
(1)  Are responsive to family members concerns about availability of care surfaced through symposia and reflected as 
issues in the Army Family Action Plan.  
(2)  Help meet the installation need for occasional care, thereby increasing the amount of full –day services available in 
CDC and FCC systems.  
 

 (3)  Offer low –cost alternatives particularly responsive to the needs of junior enlisted soldiers.  