
7  –  2.  Structure and policy  
a.  SPS w ill be considered an integral part of the overall operation of CDS.  
b.  The SPS delivery system will maximize program integration potential among CDS delivery systems, and between 
CDS delivery systems and other installation activities.  
c.  The following SP S are designated as common support services which provide support to CDC and FCC systems. 
These services will be implemented as part of the SPS delivery system on installations having CDC and FCC systems.  
(1)  Parent education services.   Centralized manage ment and delivery of parent education services including CDS news-
letters, resource libraries and special events (e.g., Month of the Military Child) for all CDS delivery systems will be coor-
dinated by SPS on installations with CDC and FCC systems.  
(2)  CDC volunteer services.   Centralized recruitment, management, training and referral of volunteers working in CDS 
programs will be coordinated by SPS on installations with CDC and FCC systems.  
(3)  CDS resource and referral service.   Provision of on and off-post child care referral services when installation CDS 
programs cannot meet child care demands or when demands for off -post child care exist. This service also assists in place-
ment of children in CDS operated or sponsored programs Army -wide prior to or in conjunction with soldier or DOD 
civilian permanent change of duty station.  
(4)  CDS central enrollment registry service.   This service functions as a “one stop” CDS program registry service for 
patrons and as a resource management measure to centrally  track and monitor child vacancies and waiting lists in all CDS 
delivery systems on installations with CDC and FCC systems. Referrals shall be made to family support programs, educa-
tion, health and recreational programs offered by on –post agencies (e.g., A rmy Community Services, Chaplains).  
d.  SAS program services for children of dual military couples, dual working couples and single soldiers when children 
require supervision during duty hours before and after school, on school holidays, during school vaca tions, on teacher 
inservice days and during school closings. The SAS program will be implemented when an installation needs assessment supports the requirement. Proponency of the SAS program is determined by the commander. Either CDS or YS may be 
designate d as the proponent.  
e.  The following SPS programs are designated as optional programs or services and may be implemented at the discre-
tion of the installation commander.  
(1)  Short term alternative child care (STACC) Program.   Provision of on –site hourly group child care within the same 
building where the parents or guardians of all children in care are attending the same on –post function.  
(2)  Child care programs for civilian employees.   Technical assistance and program oversight of child care programs 
established for the purpose of providing child care to children of Department of Army (DA) civilian employees when such 
children can not be accommodated within CDS operated facilities.  
(3)  SPS homes.   Private homes located off –post and operated by family me mbers or off post civilians which provide 
child care services for Army patrons under an agreement between the Army and the appropriate state/county or host nation agency.  
(4)  Volunteer child care in unit settings (VCCUS).   Low–cost alternative programs th at enable free child care services 
to be provided by family members in one military unit or organization for family members in another military unit or organization (or within the same military unit or organization) in exchange for similar services at a fu ture, mutually agreed 
upon time.  
(5)  CDS baby -sitter training and referral service (BTRS).   Training and referral services for adult and teen family mem-
ber baby -sitters living on and off the installation. When this service is offered it will be offered by  the CDS SPS system. 
The function will no longer be assumed by ACS.  
(6)  Parent co –ops.  Low–cost alternative programs established to provide care for children whose parents are available 
to participate in the operation and management of this care option in return for free or reduced rate child care.  
(7)  Private organization child care.   Private organizations may operate child development programs on installations 
when services comply with all center –based requirements except those applicable only to gover nment employees.  
(8)  Contracted programs and services.   Third party contractors may operate child development programs on installa-
tions when services comply with all AR 608
 –  10 requirements except those applicable only to Government employees.  
(9)  Speci al interest programs.   Programs that include CDS oversight of child care services provided by Army activities, 
other than CDS, to meet unique patron care requirements related to these activities and not available through CDS operated programs e.g., chaplai n sponsored preschool, EFMP child care program.  
(10)  Alternative sick child care programs.   Programs which cover child care for sick children offered within a MTF or 
in a separate facility outside the CDC. Technical assistance and support to CDC and FCC systems offering sick care 
options.   

 (11)  Foster Grandparent Program services.   Programs which cover placement and training of foster grandparents 
within CDS delivery systems when CDS participates in this national program sponsored under the auspices of AC S. 
(12)  Other.   Other alternatives recommended by the CDS coordinator and approved by the installation commander may 
be implemented on a pilot basis when approved by the MACOM and USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY).  
f.  Optional SPS may be authorized under any of t he following conditions:  
(1)  Existing CDS delivery systems are unable to absorb increased requirements for services.  
(2)  Existing CDS delivery systems are unable to meet requirements for unique services necessary to meet the needs of 
installation service  members and their children.  
g.  Optional SPS will be implemented only upon the recommendation of the CDS coordinator and with the approval of 
the installation commander. Approval for implementation will be based on — 
(1)  Documented need for programs and s ervices.  
(2)  Sufficient CDS oversight to assure that programs and services will meet the guidelines of this regulation and can be 
monitored by CDS management personnel.  
(3)  The availability of funding and resources to support optional SPS to ensure progr am quality assurance, and maintain 
affordable charges for services.  
(4)  Completion of an installation SOP stating the operational requirements of the option.  
h.  The following SPS care options are authorized at remote sites and small installations where comprehensive CDS are 
not feasible i.e., eligible child population is insufficient to support a CDC operation and/or the number of Government 
housing units or pool of potential FCC providers insufficient to establish a FCC system. CDS oversight is required to 
ensure the following care options meet the guidelines of this regulation.  
(1)  CDS resource and referral services.  
(2)  CDS baby -sitter training and referral service.  
(3)  SPS homes.  
(4)  VCCUS.  
(5)  Parent co –ops. 
i.  SPS may be provided as follows:  
(1)  Programs that receive technical assistance and oversight from the SPS director, the CDS coordinator and all regu-
latory proponents for CDS systems i.e., Parent Co– ops, VCCUS, contracted operations, child care services for civilian 
employees, special in terest programs, private organization child care.  
(2)  Programs and services managed by CDS i.e., Resource and Referral, BTRS, central registry, STACC, parent edu-
cation, Foster Grandparent Program, Volunteer Services in CDS programs, SPS homes, SAS, altern ative sick child care 
program.  
j.  All SPS programs and services must comply with the provisions of this regulation except as specified.  
Section II  
Program Management Compliance Requirements  