
4  –  17.  Board of Review or Ad Hoc Review Board  
a.  An officer recommended for elimination by a Board of Inquiry will have their case referred to a Board of Review 
if the notification of elimination was signed by the GOSCA and served on  the officer before . For 
Boards of Inquiry where the notification was signed by the GOSCA and served on the officer after 20 September 
2013, a Board of Review will not be required before SECARMY or designee takes final action on a recomme ndation 
of a Board of Inquiry to eliminate an officer. Elimination cases served after  will be reviewed by 
the Ad Hoc Review Board. The Ad Hoc Review Board is appointed by SECARMY or designee and has the same 
board composition as the Board of Inquiry. The Board of Review, or Ad Hoc Review Board, after thorough review of 
the records of the case, will make recommendations to SECARMY or designee as to whether the officer should be 
retained in the Army. Appearance by the respondent (or the coun sel) is not authorized.  
b.  No officer will sit as a member of the Board of Review, or Ad Hoc Review Board, who— 
(1)  Has been called as a witness.  
(2)  Was a member of the selection board for respondent.  
(3)  Appeared as a witness before or was a member o n any previous Board of Inquiry, Ad Hoc Review Board, or 
board of officers with respect to the respondent.  
(4)  Was a member or was the reviewing authority in a court -martial before which the respondent was the accused.  
(5)  Previously has recommended or participated in recommending elimination or REFRAD of the officer con-
cerned.  
(6)  Rendered a derogatory evaluation report on the accused.  
(7)  Otherwise has considered the case of the accused.  
(8)  Does not meet the board membership requirements.  
c.  When the board recommends — 
(1)  Retention in the Army (with or without reassignment) and the SECARMY or designee approves the recom-
mendation, the proceedings will be forwarded to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) and the case will be closed.  
(2)  Elimination from the Army ( to include type of discharge and characterization, if applicable), the recommenda-
tion will be transmitted to SECARMY or designee, who makes the final decision.  
d.  An officer discharged solely for substandard performance of duty will receive an honorable or general under 
honorable conditions discharge. The Board of Review, or Ad Hoc Review Board, may recommend the characterization 
of discharge to be more favorable than recommended by the Board of Inquiry but not less favorable. The Board of 
Review, or Ad Hoc Review Board’s, recommendation is not binding on SECARMY or designee.  
e.  When the Board of Review, or Ad Hoc Review Board, recommends elimination, it may also recommend clem-
ency in the form of suspension of the separation stating the reasons. However, o nly SECARMY or designee may grant 
clemency.  
Section III  
Eliminations  