
4  –  7.  Board membership  
a.  Boards will consist of at least three voting members and a recorder, legal advisor, and respondent’s counsel 
without vote. The president of the Board of Inquiry will be the grade of c olonel or above and senior in grade to the 
respondent. Other voting members will be RA officers on AD (unless the respondent is an RC officer) in the grade of 
lieutenant colonel or above and senior in grade and rank to the respondent. When the respondent i s an RC officer, one 
or more of the voting members will be an RC officer, preferably the same component. Failure to appoint one or more 
RC officers to a board involving an RC officer respondent automatically renders the findings and recommendations 
of the board invalid as a basis to eliminate the officer. If this occurs, DASA (RB) (SFMR  –  RB  –  LC) will return the 
package to the GOSCA with instructions to conduct a new board with properly constituted membership or take other 
actions as the GOSCA deems approp riate.  
b.  When an RC officer on AD is not reasonably available, the GOSCA will, through the ACOM/ASCC/DRU, 
advise HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) and request that a retired RC officer in the grade of lieutenant colonel or above be 
ordered to AD to serve on the Board of Inquiry (see 10 USC 1187). When the GOSCA knows that an eligible and 
qualified retired RC officer is located in the area of responsibility, that officer’s name, rank, date of rank, and address 
will be furnished to the ACOM/ASCC/DRU and to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). The GOSCA will also include the re-
spondent’s rank and date of rank and the approximate convene date of the Board of Inquiry.   

 c.  The ACOM/ASCC/DRU, if possible, or the CG, HRC, will make the final selection of the officer and if neces-
sary coordinate with CG, HRC to issue the AD orders. The CG, HRC, or the ACOM/ASCC/DRU will notify the 
GOSCA (by electronic message) of the selected of ficer, including the officer’s AD entry date.  
d.  When the respondent is a minority, female, or special branch (see 10 USC 7064), the board will (upon the 
officer’s written request) include a minority, female, or special branch as voting member (if reasonably available, as 
this provision is not an entitlement). If an officer is in more than one category and requests officers from all or two 
categories, the board membership may be met by one or more officers (if reasonably available, as this provision is not  
an entitlement). The request for these members, if desired, will be submitted 7 days from the date that the respondent 
receives the notification or else the right to request is waived.  
e.  When the reasons for elimination include substandard performance o f duty (see para 4–2a, except para  4–2a(9)), 
the board membership will include an officer of the same branch as the respondent (if reasonably available, as this is 
not an entitlement). Normally, this is the only time a chaplain, AMEDD, or JAGC officer serves as a board member 
unless he or she is the only available RC colonel in the area and the respondent is an RC officer.  
f.  No officer will be a voting member of a Board of Inquiry who—  
(1)  Is serving (or has previously served) as a witness for the respondent.  
(2)  Served as a member of the selection board in the particular case or served as a member on any previous Board 
of Inquiry, Review, or other board of officers with respect to the respondent.  
(3)  Was a member (or was the reviewing authority) of a previous court -martial in which the respondent was the 
accused.  
(4)  Previously recommended (or participated in recommending) the respondent for elimination from AD.  
(5)  Rendered a derogatory  evaluation report on the respondent.  
(6)  Otherwise considered the respondent’s case.  
g.  In addition to the reasons stated in paragraph  4–7f, voting members and the legal advisor may be challenged for 
cause for any reason t hat indicates they cannot participate in the case in a fair and impartial manner. The challenge 
will be determined by the senior unchallenged board member.  
h.  Except for the legal advisor and the recorder, only voting members may attend a closed session.  