
7  –  26.  Short term alternative child care (STACC)  
STACC is designed to provide on –site hourly group care when the parent(s) or guardian(s) of all children in care are 
attending the same on –post func tion and sufficient spaces are not available within the child development center.  
a.  STACC must be provided in the same facility or in a building immediately adjacent to the facility where parents are 
in attendance at the same function.  
b.  The SPS direct or will provide caregiving employees to meet the age group ratio and group size requirements for care 
in center –based settings.   

 (1)  CDC caregiving employees will be designated to provide STACC care as required. Such staff will not include 
primary caregivers or staff needed to meet or maintain staff/child ratios in CDC settings.  
(2)  Center staff who provide care must be able to function independently, have completed the basic 38 hours of center 
training requirements, and meet all background clearance and h ealth requirements.  
c.  Equipment and materials will be provided by CDS. Equipment and materials may be provided from center –based 
programs or checked out from SPS or FCC resource/toy lending libraries. The SPS director will ensure that equipment and 
mater ials are delivered to the STACC site.  
d.  Activity plans, appropriate for the ages and number of children served, will be written for each STACC session to 
ensure developmentally appropriate activities are provided.  
e.  Registration requirements for childr en attending STACC will be limited to DA Form 4719  –  R and a current immun-
ization record. A STACC identification card should be developed for use at subsequent STACC sessions. This card will 
include, at a minimum, the name of child and sponsor, sponsor ran k/grade, age of child, verification of immunization and 
expiration date.  
f.  Children will be observed for obvious signs of illness upon arrival. Children may be denied service according to AR 
608  –  10 paragraph  4  –  28. 
g.  Parents must remain in or immediately adjacent to the building during the entire STACC session. The Army is not 
assuming custody of the child during STACC sessions since the parent is remaining immediately accessible to the child and retains primary respons ibility for the child.  
h.  Since parents are on the premises, CDC facility standards do not apply to STACC sites. The SPS director, site build-
ing manager, and proponents for fire, safety, and health will evaluate the site to ensure basic safety and health needs are 
met in accordance local STACC SOP.  
i.  Snacks/meals will be provided appropriate for the time and length of the session and which meet USDA CACFP 
requirements. Infant formula and baby food will be provided by parents.  
j.  The SPS director will be  responsible for all administrative functions associated with STACC to include — 
(1)  Developing an SOP for STACC which includes; at a minimum the following:  
(a)  A description of services offered.  
(b)  Coordination requirements with CDC and FCC systems.  
(c)  SPS responsibilities.  
(d)  Program operations.  
(e)  Facility criteria.  
(f)  Personnel criteria.  
(g)  Training.  
(h)  Child abuse and preventive response procedures.  
(i)  Financial management.  
(j)  Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.  
(2)  Coordinati ng with program directors to schedule staff and/or equipment for STACC sessions.  
(3)  Coordinating dates and times with the sponsoring organization.  
(4)  Preparing an agreement for signature by the CDS coordinator and sponsoring agency which specifies time , date, 
location, number and ages of children to be served, number of caregivers, cost and descriptions of services.  
(5)  Collecting fees. (Fees should include cost of caregivers, food, room rental, if applicable, and any other operating 
expenses incurred as a result of the STACC session.)  
(6)  Monitoring the operation of STACC programs.  
(7)  Evaluating proposed STACC sites for safety and adequacy.  
(8)  Securing the approval of the STACC site building manager for use.  
(9)  Maintaining records of STACC use to include number of organizations served, locations of sites, number of STACC 
services provided, number and ages of children served, ranks of sponsors served, number and names of caregiving em-ployees provided, fees collected, and an annotated summary of all STACC sessions offered.  
k.  STACC sessions will be evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron satisfaction surveys.  