
7  –  20.  CDS resource and referral services  
Centralized CDS resource and referral services will be established to help patrons locate child care services. Information 
will be available to parents to meet their needs for service compatible with age of children,  duty hours, extended hours 
emergency care, care during temporary duty and field exercises and on or off -post care options. Referrals will  
 Centralized CDS resource and referral services will be established to help patrons locate child care services. Infor mation 
will be available to parents to meet their needs for service compatible with age of children, duty hours, extended hours emergency care, care during temporary duty and field exercises and on or off -post care options. Referrals will also be 
made to o n post agencies to assist patrons locate appropriate education opportunities and family support, health and rec-
reation programs.  
a.  Local child care referral services.   The SPS director will provide program –specific information about on and off –
post child  care services for potential and active patrons through CDS resource and referral services.  
(1)  Information and assistance provided to patrons will be detailed to meet each patron’s unique child care needs.  
(2)  The SPS director will maintain information about programs and services in the installation CDS delivery systems 
and available off –post child care programs. The SPS director will coordinate closely with the ACS Relocation Program to 
preclude duplication of service and provide up to date CDS informat ion for ACS welcome packets.  
(a)  Information will include, but not be limited to, type of programming, hours of operation, fees, parent responsibilities 
to the program, ratios, group sizes, staff qualifications, and compliance with Army CDS or applicable State standards.  
(b)  Army –wide child care referral service. The SPS director will assist eligible patrons transfer to new assignments 
without undue loss of duty time caused by locating and enrolling their children in available child care programs.  
(c)  Recommendations for services will not be made.  
(d)  Parents will be provided with guidelines for selecting quality child care.  
(3)  Prior to being provided any information, parents will complete and sign the Statement of Understanding Regarding 
Child care Resource and Referral Services ( fig 7
 –  1). 
(4)  Parents will be informed about available child care services and assisted in determining the program type most 
likely to meet the needs of the parent and child.  
(5)  Assista nce will be provided to ensure the parent and child have the opportunity to visit and observe selected child 
care programs.  
(6)  Assistance will be provided in initiating enrollment procedures for on –post child care programs.  
(7)  Records will be kept of a ll assistance provided.  
(8)  Follow –up inquiries will be made to patrons 30 days after service to monitor the quality of assistance, and user 
satisfaction with referral.  
b.  Army –wide child care referral service.   The SPS director will assist eligible patr ons transfer to new assignments 
without undue loss of duty time caused by locating and enrolling their children in available child care programs.  
(1)  CDS patrons may submit a request to the CDS resource and referral service at the losing installation for specific 
information about on and off -post child care availability at their next duty assignment. Prior to being provided any infor-
mation, parents will complete and sign the Statement of Understanding Regarding Child Care Resource and Referral Ser-vices ( fig 7
 –  1). 
(2)  SPS personnel will contact the gaining installation for information about on and off –post child care programs and 
the status of waiting lists.  
(3)  Information will be provided to assist the soldier and DOD civilian, in finding care in a CDS system or off –post 
program prior to departure from the losing installation.  
(4)  Gaining installations will provide accurate information on all on and off –post child care programs including antic-
ipated waiting list ti me. Every effort will be made to assist incoming personnel make satisfactory temporary or permanent 
child care arrangements prior to arrival on the installation.  
(5)  Follow –up inquiries will be made to patrons to monitor the quality of assistance and user  satisfaction with the 
assistance.  
c.  Referrals for other services. The SPS director shall use existing CDS R & R services to assist eligible patrons locate 
appropriate education opportunities and family support, health care, and recreational programs off ered by other installation 
agencies (e.g., Army Community Services, Chaplains).   

 d.  The resource and referral service should be co –located with the central enrollment registry to facilitate joint use of 
automation equipment.  
e.  The SPS director will develop an SOP for the resource and referral service which includes — 
(1)  Services available.  
(2)  Coordination efforts required with other agencies.  
(3)  SPS responsibilities.  
(4)  Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.  
(5)  Exclusion criteria.  
f.  The SPS director will maintain the following records:  
(1)  Number of requests for assistance.  
(2)  Number of referrals by total referrals, sponsors by rank, and children by age.  
(3)  Number of center –based and quarters –based on and off –post child care spaces available.  
(4)  Record of follow –up inquiries.  
g.  CDS resource and referral services will be evaluated as part of ICCET and through a patron satisfaction survey.  