
6  –  2.  Computati on of service  
a.  There are different types of creditable military service. Each type is computed according to the applicable pro-
visions of federal law for the various types of retirement. AFS is applicable for retirement under this chapter. For 
mandatory retirement of an RA commissioned officer, AFS may include constructive service (for a commissioned 
officer on AD on ) and is computed to determine whether — 
(1)  An RA or RC officer may retire voluntarily.  
(2)  An RA commissioned or warrant  officer must be retired mandatorily.  
(3)  A warrant officer may be advanced to a higher commissioned grade.   

 b.  Retired pay is computed according to pay formulas in 10 USC Chapter 71 and 10 USC Chapter 371 provisions 
contained in the retirement law, and a ccording to 37 USC.  
c.  Upon appointment in the RA, certain commissioned officers are credited with constructive service. This amount 
of service is used to determine the RA grade and placement on the ADL and counts as mandatory retirement service 
for commi ssioned officers on AD before . When the mandatory retirement service is greater than 
the total service for basic pay, it is used as the multiplier in determining the percentage in computing retired pay. No 
period of service subsequent to the date the officer meets the service requirements for mandatory retirement is cred-
itable in the computation of retired pay unless specified by law.  
d.  For voluntary retirements that do not require a waiver and do not appear to involve retirement of a Regular 
commissioned officer with at least 30 but less than 40 years of active service for retirement purposes, service compu-
tations will be performed at the installation maintaining the local personnel file or MPF, as appropriate of the retiree. 
For general  officers, JAGC officers, chaplains, officers managed by the Special Management Branch, Regular com-
missioned officers with at least 30 but less than 40 years of active service for retirement purposes, and those that 
require waiver, service computations wil l be performed by the supporting service center and forwarded with the re-
spective retirement request for validation to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). Service computations for USAR officers not on 
the ADL will be performed by HRC (AHRC  –  AR). For those retirements w here the GCMCA or designee is the ap-
proval authority, HRC (AHRC  –  MSR) will provide the AMHRR of the retiree to the installation upon request. When 
service has been computed for retirement or retired pay and an officer claims additional service that is not  stated in 
the current official U.S. Army Register or the officer’s AMHRR, the officer will contact the installation for recompu-
tation of service. The officer will provide justifying documents. The documents must be certified statements of service, 
dischar ge certificates, or other official evidence. These documents will be submitted at least 6 months prior to the 
retirement date, to allow time for verification and updating of the records. Officers of the USAR who are not on the 
ADL will contact HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for recomputation of service.  
e.  Service computation for ARNG officers will be performed for those serving on 32 USC duty by the state ARNG 
Human Resources Office or by the NGB Human Capital Management (HCM) Division for those on 10 USC AGR 
duty. ARNG officers will contact NGB Retirement Services (ARNG  –  HRP  –  T), 111 S. George Mason Drive, Arling-
ton, VA 22204  –  1373 for assistance with recomputation of service.  