
5  –  17.  Supervision of children  
a.  A minimum of two CDC personnel must be on duty in t he facility regardless of the number of children present.   

 b.  Personnel employed for support purposes such as food service, clerical functions, or facility maintenance may not 
be counted in the ratios while performing these tasks.  
c.  Visual supervision of  all children must be maintained at all times. No child will be left unattended at any time indoors 
or outdoors, asleep or awake.  
(1)  Increased visual supervision must be provided during naptime if ratios are doubled according to paragraph  5–
13a(2)(a). 
(2)  Provision for adult supervision of child toilets, separate from adult/child ratios within the child activity rooms, is 
required when child toilets are not within the child activity room.  
(3)  No child may reenter the center from the playground without being in the presence of an adult.  
(4)  At least two caregivers must be present with each group of children at all times. When this is not possible, due to 
limited room capacity or limited number of children, usually early or late in the day, children should be combined until 
child count justifies the staffing of a second module. Children must be supervised through close observation measures to 
ensure oversight by more than one adult.  
d.  All indoor and outdoor child activity spaces must be visually and physically accessible to multiple adults for super-
vision purposes.  
e.  Following an allegation of HQDA reportable child sexual abuse (of sufficient credibility to cause a military or civilian 
law enforcement investigati on to be initiated according to AR 608  –  18) each child activity room/module, or indoor or 
outdoor play space where children are present must have a minimum of two staff persons at all times. Similarly visual 
supervision of child toilets will be provided b y at least two staff members, so that children are always in the presence of 
two adults until the allegation is resolved.  
(1)  This may require the center to hire additional personnel to ensure that a relief person is available to cover for care-
giving empl oyees, or to close those small rooms staffed with only one person when a second cannot be provided.  
(2)  Stafffing will not be relaxed during staff break or naptime periods and does not negate the requirement to maintain 
adult/child ratios at all times of the day (including staff breaks) in accordance with other guidance contained within para-graph 5
 –  13. 
(3)  The CDC will remain in this staffing configuration until the following occurs:  
(a)  The investigation has been complet ed. 
(b)  A close –out report in accordance with AR 608  –  18 has been submitted and formal relief from this requirement has 
been provided by USACFSC, (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY) and USACFSC (CFSC  –  SFA).  
f.  CDC management personnel will ensure that extra vigilance in supervising children is maintained during those time 
periods where there is likely to be greater confusion (e.g., arrival and departure times and transition periods) during per-sonnel turnover.  
g.  Routine mechanisms will be developed to check periodically for the presence of each child when large groups of 
children are together.  
h.  CDC management personnel will ensure outdoor playground time is productively used by caregiving employees to 
work with children on developmental skills. During outdoor play, adu lts will move constantly, interacting with the children 
and making sure all children are in view.  
i.  Toddlers and preschoolers attending CDC programs should wear sturdy (e.g., laminated poster board type) name tags 
which serve multiple purposes. Name tags  do not reflect a custodial program but promote developmental programming 
experiences, effective management oversight, and increased child self -image.  
Section V  
Developmental Programming Compliance Requirement 