
6  –  26.  Age composition, ratios, and group size  
Each provisionally and fully certified FCC home will be authorized a maximum number of children who may be accepted 
at any one time for full –day, part –day or hourly care ( table 6  –  1). This total may be restricted locally, based on the size of 
the housing unit.  
 
Table 6 –1 
FCC home ratios and group size  — Continued  
Home type/setting  Age group  Adult/child ratio  Group size  
Multi –age1  4 wks –12 yrs  1:6 6 
Newborn/ Infant2  
Infant/Toddler  Birth–12 mths  
4 weeks –3 yrs  1:3 
1:3 3  

 Table 6 –1 
FCC home ratios and group size  — Continued  
School –age 5 yrs –12 yrs  1:8 8 
Special needs  4 wks –12 yrs  Determined on individual basis  Determined on individual basis  
HIV 
Mobile home units 1  4 wks –12 yrs  
4wks –12 yrs  Determined on individual basis  
1:4 Determined on individual basis  
4 
Notes: 
Provider’s own children under the age of 8 count in all ratios except school –age homes where provider’s own children under the age of 12 count.  
1 Age group may include only two children under 2 years of age.  
2 Birth to 4 weeks age group restricted to children of sole/dual military parents.  
 
a.  For multi– age homes: In an FCC home in which one FCC provider cares for children of all ages (4 weeks through 
12 years), the group size at any given time will not exceed six. No more than two of these children may be under 2 years 
of age. The FCC provider’s own children under age 8 will count toward the group size requirement.  
b.  For age specific homes the following applies:  
(1)  Infant/toddler home.   In an FCC home in which one FCC provider cares for children who are all under 2 years of 
age, the group size at any given time will not exceed three. The FCC provider’s own children under 8 years will count 
toward the group size requirement.  
(2)  School –age home.   In an FCC  home in which one FCC provider cares for children who are all enrolled in kinder-
garten or elementary school classes, the group size at any given time will not exceed eight. The FCC provider’s own 
children 12 years and younger will count toward the group s ize requirement.  
c.  The following applies to special purpose homes:  
(1)  Special needs home.   In an FCC home in which one FCC provider cares for children with disabilities (physical or 
emotional), or unique care requirements, the group size at any given t ime will be determined by the FCC director in 
consultation with the CDS coordinator and appropriate medical and social service support personnel.  
(2)  Newborn/infant home.   In an FCC home in which one FCC provider cares for infants who are all under 12 mon ths 
of age, the group size at any given time will not exceed three. The FCC provider’s own children under age 8 will count 
toward the group size requirement.  
d.  A lesser number of children or further restrictions on age –group configurations may be establi shed for any FCC 
home. These exceptions will be determined as part of the FCC certification process and will be influenced by such  factors 
as residence size and accommodations; FCC applicant qualifications and experience; and special requirements for chil dren 
and families using services.  
e.  Mobile homes may only be used for FCC if the number of children is limited to four children under the age of 12 
years. Only two of the four children may be under the age of 2 years. The FCC provider’s own children unde r the age of 
8 years must be counted in these ratios.  
f.  Providers exceeding these ratios as authorized by previous edition of AR 608  –  10 may continue to operate until the 
children leave through normal attrition at which time they may not be replaced.  