

 6  –  21.  Mandatory retirement due to maximum age  
a.  Unless othe rwise retired or separated, an RA commissioned officer will retire effective the first day of the month 
following the month the officer reaches age 62 (see 10 USC 1251).  
b.  An RA commissioned officer who is a permanent professor, the director of admission s, or the registrar at the 
USMA will retire effective the first day of the month following the month age 64 is reached.  
c.  The President may defer retirement of an RA commissioned officer serving in a position that carries a grade 
above major general. How ever, the deferment may not extend beyond the first day of the month following the month 
the officer reaches age 64. (Only 10 such deferments may be in effect at one time.)  
d.  SECARMY may defer the retirement of certain health professions officers. Reques ts for deferment under this 
provision will be forwarded through the officer’s chain of command to CG, HRC (AHRC  –  OPL  –  P). Deferment under 
this provision may not extend beyond the first day of the month following the month of the officer’s 68th birth date  
(see 10 USC 1251). For USAR officers, see paragraph  2–10a(8). 
(1)  SECARMY may defer the retirement of RA officers in the Medical Corps, Dental Corps, and Army Nurse 
Corps if during the period of deferment, the officer w ill be performing duties consisting primarily of providing patient 
care or performing other clinical duties.  
(2)  SECARMY may defer the retirement of RA officers in the following corps/areas of concentration (AOCs) if 
during the period of deferment, the of ficer’s duties will consist primarily of providing health care, performing other 
clinical care, or performing health care- related administrative duties.  
(a)  Veterinary Corps Officers in the following AOCs:  
1.  64B Veterinary Preventive Medicine.  
2.  64C Veterinary Laboratory Animal Medicine.  
3.  64D Veterinary Pathologists.  
4.  64E Veterinary Comparative Medicine.  
5.  64F Veterinary Clinical Medicine.  
(b)  Army Medical Specialist Corps Officers in the following AOCs:  
1.  65A Occupational Medicine.  
2.  65B Physical Therapist.  
3.  65C Clinical Dietician.  
4.  65D Physician Assistant.  
(c)  Medical Service Corps Officers in the following AOCs:  
1.  67B Laboratory Science Officers.  
2.  67C Preventive Medicine Officers.  
3.  67D Behavioral Health Officers.  
4.  67E Pharmacy Officers.  
5.  67F Optometry Officers.  
6.  67G Podiatrists.  
e.  SECARMY may defer the retirement of an officer who is appointed or designated as a chaplain if the Secretary 
determines that such deferral is in the best interest of the Army. Defermen t under this provision may not extend beyond 
the first day of the month following the month of the officer’s 68th birth date (see 10 USC 1251). Requests for defer-
ment under this provision will be forwarded through the officer’s chain of command to OCCH (DA CH  –  PER).  
f.  Unless otherwise retired or separated, a warrant officer with 20 years active service will retire not later than 60 
days after the officer reaches age 62 (see 10 USC 1263). Under extenuating circumstances, SECARMY may defer the 
retirement of  a warrant officer up to 4 months.  
g.  The maximum age retirement notification memorandum will be forwarded by HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) to the 
officer and commander approximately 9 months before the officer’s scheduled retirement date. In addition, a copy 
will be sent to the appropriate MPD. The memorandum advises the officer of approaching retirement, expressing 
appreciation for service, and the suggestion that contact be made with the local examining facility concerning any 
medical defects of which the officer is aware. The memorandum includes the officer’s mandatory retirement date, the 
specific statutory authority for the retirement, and pertinent data.  
h.  On receipt of the officer’s pre- retirement data, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will complete the pre -retirement packet 
and forward it to the appropriate TC.  
i.  The steps required for processing mandatory retirement due to maximum age are shown in table  6  –  4. 
  

 Table 6  –  4 
Processing mandatory retirement due to maximum age  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Receives maximum age notification approximately 9 months before the scheduled retirement, including 
the following guidance:  
a. Mandatory retirement date, the specific statutory authority, and pertinent  service data.  
b. Advisement to contact local medical examining facility regarding any known medical problems.  
2 SAA 
C&S 
BN S  –  1 Receives copy of the officer’s maximum age notification memorandum, including the pre -retirement data 
instructions.  
3 Personnel 
Service  
Center 
SACT  Receives copy of the officer’s maximum age notification memorandum and takes the following actions:  
a. Coordinates to ensure the officer has received notification memorandum and to provide assistance as 
needed.  
b. Controls the separation processing.  
c. Maintains the officer’s file for 30 calendar days after retirement, then destroys the file.  
4 BN S  –  1 
SACT  Forwards the officer’s pre -retirement data through channels (includes POC and telephone number), a 
minimum of 3 months prior to the scheduled date, to the following (see fig 6  –  3): 
a. General Officer Management Office, Office of the Chief of Staff, Army, 200 Army Pentagon, Washing-
ton, DC 20310  –  0200, for general officers.  
b. Commander, Human Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort 
Knox, KY 40122  –  5400, for all other officers.  
5 TC  Receives retirement packet and conducts retirement processing. Final separation forms will cite regulatory 
authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 