
4  –  15.  Conclusio n of hearing  
a.  Deliberation.   After the closing arguments, only the voting members of the Board of Inquiry will meet in the 
closed sessions of deliberations. The board may seek the advice of the legal advisor whenever necessary; however, 
the board will b e opened, and the advice will be obtained in open session (and incorporated in the record) with the 
recorder, respondent, and counsel present.  
b.  Findings and recommendations.  
(1)  The Board of Inquiry determines its findings and recommendation by secret written ballot in closed session, 
with a majority vote deciding any issue.  
(2)  Based on the evidence presented at the hearings, the board will make a separate finding (including a brief 
statement) on each factual allegation and reason for involuntary separation. The board will render findings of fact, 
supported by a preponderance of the evidence, that should describe specific relevant conduct by the respondent in 
sufficient detail to support the board’s recommendation. The findings will address each separa te reason for separation 
and each separate factual allegation. Findings that simply state the officer did or did not engage in conduct covered 
by paragraphs 4 –2a, 4–2b, or 4–2c are insufficient and will result in the case being returned to the board for amended 
findings. The board may choose to address mitigating, extenuating, or aggravating factors in its findings where it 
believes that such findings are necessary to support or explain the board’s recommendation. The board may, based on 
the evidence, present findings that amend or specify new allegations. However, new allegations must support a reason 
for elimination that was included in the find ings of the selection board or in the officer’s notification memorandum. 
The board may recommend retention (with or without reassignment) or involuntary separation. The board will include 
the type of discharge certificate and characterization to issue, when elimination is recommended (and the officer is 
not retirement eligible (see 10 USC 1186, 10 USC 7311, 10 USC 12731, or 10 USC 14905)) for misconduct, moral 
or professional dereliction, or in the interest of national security.  
(3)  The board may not recom mend removal of documents such as OERs; UCMJ, Art. 15; and Memoranda of 
Reprimand from an officer’s AMHRR. The board recommendations are limited to either retention (with or without 
reassignment) or elimination.  
(4)  After the board determines its findings  and recommendations, the board members may request the presence of 
the legal advisor and reporter at the closed session to assist with compiling the board’s findings and recommendation 
in the acceptable format.  
(5)  The board’s findings and recommendations will be announced to the respondent.  
c.  Report of proceedings.  
(1)  The record of proceedings will be kept in summarized form unless a verbatim record is required by the appoint-
ing authority after consultation with the servicing judge advocate or legal advisor concerning the availability of ver-
batim reporters. The summarized transcript will include the following:  
(a)  A copy of the order appointing the Board of Inquiry and amending orders (if any).  
(b)  A copy of the documents showing initiation of the e limination action and the decision to refer the case to a 
Board of Inquiry.   

 (c)  Names and appropriate identifying information, such as rank and unit of assignment for military members or 
city and state of residence for civilians, of all witnesses called b efore the board. Extraneous and easily abused identi-
fying information, such as a DODID, date of birth, driver’s license number, or residential address will not be entered 
into the record of a Board of Inquiry to identify witnesses appearing before the boar d, nor will they be used to identify 
board members or support personnel.  
(d)  A verbatim transcript of the findings and recommendations of the Board of Inquiry.  
(e)  Other information as is deemed appropriate by the appointing authority. The board presiden t, legal advisor, 
recorder, or respondent’s counsel may recommend other information for inclusion.  
(f)  An accurate account of the board’s proceedings, insofar as practicable, will be prepared according to the general 
instructions set forth in AR 15  –  6. A DA Form 1574  –  2 (Report of Proceedings by Board of Officers) will be prepared 
to accompany the verbatim or summarized proceedings. If an RC officer is appointed to the board when required by 
paragraph  4–7a, or a minority, female, or special branch officer is appointed when requested under paragraph  4–7d, 
the RC, minority, female, or special branch officer will be identified as such in the listing of persons present in section 
II of DA Form 1574  –  2. 
(g)  A summarized record of testimony presented and heard and of all other formal conversations that took place 
during all open sessions of the Board of Inquiry.  
(h)  A summarized record of any closed session that required the presence of the legal advisor and the reporter.  
(i)  True copies or true extract copies of all documents used as a basis for requiring the respondent to show cause 
and all other documents that are accepted as evidence in the case. These documents must be legibl e and reproducible. 
Copies that are illegible will not be used.  
(j)  A statement that the findings and recommendations were determined by secret written ballot in closed session. 
The members of the Board of Inquiry who did not concur in the findings and/or  recommendations of the Board of 
Inquiry may file a statement of their nonconcurrence and the reasons therefore for inclusion in the record.  
(2)  Guidance for the preparation of a verbatim report of a Board of Inquiry is contained in figure  4  –  1. This text 
should be modified freely when preparing a summarized transcript.  
(3)  A Board of Inquiry data sheet will be used as a final check of the report of proceedings only insofar as it is 
consistent with the elimination proc edures established by this regulation (see fig 4  –  2). Figure  4  –  2 is only intended to 
provide guidance.  
(4)  Clemency may not be concurrently recommended by a Board of Inquiry when the board has concluded that an 
officer should be eliminated. Clemency can only be exercised by SECARMY or designee.  