
7  –  18.  Parent education services  
a.  The SPS delivery system will provide a central point for coordination of parent education tra ining, resources, and 
special events for all CDS delivery systems. SPS will coordinate this service when both CDC and FCC systems are on the 
installation.  
(1)  Parent education programs will be offered for parents enrolled in the CDC, FCC, and SPS systems.  
(2)  CDC and FCC system directors will be responsible for the selection and implementation of parent education training 
in CDC and FCC systems.  
b.  The SPS director will support all CDS delivery systems by — 
(1)  Developing an SOP for parent education services which includes — 
(a)  Services offered.   

 (b)  Coordination requirements with CDC and FCC delivery systems.  
(c)  SPS responsibilities.  
(d)  Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.  
(2)  Working with CDS system/program directors to develop and execut e an annual parent education training plan for 
all CDS delivery systems.  
(3)  Serving as the central POC for all parent education services offered within CDS systems.  
(4)  Coordinating with other agencies to ensure there is no duplication of parent educati on services.  
(5)  Arranging for speakers, special programs, and classes that are of interest to all CDS parents.  
(6)  Coordinating, preparing, and distributing newsletters for all CDS systems.  
(7)  Serving as the CDS POC for designated special events e.g.,  Month of the Military Child.  
c.  Parent education training sites will be locally determined by CDS system directors.  
d.  Parent education services will be offered at a time and in a manner which is convenient for users.  
e.  The SPS director will maintain the following records:  
(1)  Annual parent education training plan.  
(2)  Title, and date of sessions offered.  
(3)  Number of participants per sessions.  
(4)  Annotated summary of each training session.  
(5)  Listing of resources available for parents.  
f.  Parent education services will be evaluated as part of the ICCET and with a patron satisfaction survey.  