
5  –  20.  Organization of Indoor child activity spaces  
CDC program s will organize indoor child activity rooms/modules into functional areas that provide and support develop-
mentally appropriate learning experiences for young children.  
a.  Child space allocation.   There must be at least 35 square feet of usable floor space, as defined in paragraph  5–30b, 
per child activity room/module or space used for child program activities.  
b.  Functional arrangement.   Space will be arranged to prevent disruption by adjacent activity areas and will clearly 
communicate expectations and limitations for children.  
c.  Infants.   areas will include— 
(1)  Activity centers with the following:  
(a)  Washable soft surface and protected crawl areas.  
(b)  Hard surfaces for wheel toys.  
(c)  Railings or support dev ices to promote walking efforts.  
(d)  Open space for equipment and floor toys.  
(e)  Wall mounted safety mirrors at varying heights  
(2)  Protected spaces for nursing mothers if needed.  
(3)  Food preparation area to include stove, refrigerator, counter space, and bottle warming mechanism.  
d.  Toddlers and preschool -age.  The following activity centers designated activity spaces will be available for routine 
use by toddlers and preschool age children:  
(1)  Wheel toys and large motor activities.  
(2)  Imaginative play.  
(3)  Sand and water tables.  
(4)  Arts and crafts.  
(5)  Table toys and readiness activities.  
(6)  Blocks and transportation toys.  
(7)  Open space for group and circle activities, including music and floor toys.  
(8)  Books and quiet activities.  
(9)  Private hideaway and soft areas space.  
(10)  Area for cooking, nutrition, and wood working activities.  
e.  School -age. 
(1)  Activity spaces for school -age children may include any of the toddler and preschool -age activity centers with 
appropriate age level  adaptations.  
(2)  Work areas for hobbies and homework will be provided.  
(3)  When space double functions for another group, separate lockable storage equipment will be provided for supplies 
and program materials.   