
4
 –  14.  Diapering and toileting  
Toilet facilities will be available to children at all times.  
a.  Toilet training will be cooperatively planned by caregiving employees and FCC providers and parents so there is a 
consistent toilet routine available at home and in the care setting.  
b.  Settings providing care for children under three years of age will be equipped with complete diapering areas which 
meet the following criteria: 
(1)  Diap ering surface is used only for diapering. Children may not be changed in cribs or on the floor.  
(2)  Hot and cold running water is immediately adjacent to the diapering area.  
(3)  Diapering area is not adjacent to food preparation and serving areas.  
(4)  Diaper bags, disinfectants etc., are stored out of reach of children.  
c.  Diaper changing surfaces will be— 
(1)  Covered with washable material which can be thoroughly cleaned after each use.  
(2)  Smooth, non –porous, water –proof and free from cracks or crev ices. 
d.  Free standing diaper changing tables will have either a safety strap to retain children or a raised edge to prevent 
children from rolling off the surface.  
e.  Procedures for diaper changing as recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control w ill be followed (see app  
C). 
f.  All CDS programs will use only disposable paper diapers. (Exceptions to this policy will be allowed only upon receipt 
of a signed physician’s statement directing the use of cloth diapers. ) 
g.  Soiled diapers will be placed in plastic bags, sealed and disposed of in a separate trash receptacle. This receptacle 
will be emptied frequently, cleaned and sanitized at a minimum daily.  
h.  Center employees and FCC providers providing routine daytime care will not wash children’s soiled clothing. All 
soiled clothing will be sealed in a plastic bag and returned to the parent. When a child is in care more than 24 hours, the 
FCC provider may launder clothing only if clothing soiled with body fluids or excrement is washed separately from other 
laundry.  
i.  In center –based settings, portable training chair receptacles will only be used with the approval of environmental 
health and preventive medicine personnel.  
j.  Portable training chair receptacle frames and containers must be made of a smooth, non –porous material which is 
easily cleaned. Wood frames may not be used. The container must be easily removable and fit securely into the frame. Portable training chair receptacles must be emptied and saniti zed with a solution of one part bleach to ten parts water after 
each use.  