
4  –  27.  Care of children infected with HIV  
The following guidelines apply to the care of all infants and children ages 4 weeks through 12 years of age regardless of their stage of infection with the HIV, and are based on the need to protect HIV –infected children from the risk of acquiring 
illness or infections common in other children with normal immune systems.  
a.  Placement of an HIV –infected child  into Army sponsored CDS programs will be determined on a case –by–case 
basis. The goal of the placement decision is to provide the optimal setting for care based on the overall health status of th e 
child. Factors which will be considered in the decision in clude neurological development, behavior, and immune system 
status. Consideration will also be given to special circumstances in which the protective environment of a special purpose 
FCC home would be more appropriate (i.e., need for stringent infection co ntrol procedures to protect an HIV –infected 
child from communicable disease).  
b.  The placement decision will be made by a team consisting of the child’s physician, his or her parents, the CDS 
coordinator, the preventive medicine physician, and the communi ty health nurse. If this team is unsure of the appropriate 
placement decision, additional personnel at the medical center servicing that installation’s health service region or at the installation’s MACOM headquarters may be consulted. Confidentiality of t he information regarding the child and his or 
her parents will be maintained by all personnel involved in the decision.  
c.  Knowledge of the child’s HIV status will be limited to those who have a legitimate need for that information taking 
into account the  following:  
(1)  Specific infection control procedures needed to protect the child or the child’s caregivers.  
(2)  Home health procedures dictated by the child’s medical treatment plan.  
(3)  The need for a supportive environment due to developmental, neurological, or behavioral deficiencies.   

 d.  Care for HIV –infected children ages 6  –  12 (with the exception of those who can not control their body secretions) 
will be in accordance with the local, DODDs or section 6 school regulations. A team consisting of the HIV –infected child’s 
parents or guardian, physician, public health personnel, and CDS or SAS personnel will evaluate the circumstances of each 
case and determine placement options most appropriate for the child.  
e.  SOPs for providing care to HIV –infected children, and a special educational program addressing administrative and 
medical concerns in providing care to HIV –infected children will be developed by HQDA. In the interim, procedures will 
be developed locally and coordinated through the MACOM w ith USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY). MACOMs will furnish a 
copy of all locally developed procedures to USACFSC (CFSC  –  SF  –  CY) 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alex, VA 22331  –  0521 
and HQDA (DAPE  –  MPH  –  S), The Pentagon, Washington, D.C. 20310.  