
2  –  14.  Involuntary release from active duty due to civilian criminal conviction  
a.  An RC officer on AD who is convicted and sentenced to confinement in a federal or state penitentiary or other 
correctional institution for a crime of moral turpitude (including, but not limited to: child abuse, incest, indecent ex-
posure, soliciting prost itution, embezzlement, check fraud, and any felony or other offense against the mores of soci-
ety) and whose sentence has become final, may be REFRAD by the SECARMY or designee.  
b.  When an officer on AD is convicted and sentenced to confinement in a federal or state penitentiary or other 
correctional institution for a crime of moral turpitude, and the convicted officer’s sentence has become final, the  

 GCMCA of the convicted officer may consider the officer for REFRAD. If the GCMCA decides to initiate a reco m-
mendation to REFRAD the convicted officer, the GCMCA will also consider whether the respondent should instead 
be eliminated under paragraph  4  –  2 or DFR under paragraph  5  –  9 of this regulation. If the GCMCA recommends that 
the respondent should not be eliminated or DFR, but merely considered for REFRAD, the GCMCA will make a 
written recommendation to that effect, addressing the respondent’s potential for future service. If th e GCMCA deter-
mines that elimination, DFR, or some other disposition is warranted, the initiating officer need not make any recom-
mendation regarding REFRAD.  
c.  If the GCMCA decides to recommend the convicted officer for REFRAD, the GCMCA will notify the of ficer 
concerned in writing using the format shown in figure  2  –  6. The notice to the officer will include documentation 
establishing that the conviction and sentence are final. The officer will acknowledge receipt of the  notice in writing 
within 24 hours. The officer will be afforded the assistance of a member of the JAGC, or he may choose to retain a 
civilian counsel at no expense to the Government. The officer will be afforded 30 days to provide a written response 
to the recommendation of the GCMCA. The officer may waive in writing the assistance of counsel and the opportunity 
to make a response.  
d.  If, after receiving the officer’s response and obtaining the advice of the staff judge advocate, the GCMCA de-
cides to reco mmend the REFRAD of the officer, the GCMCA will forward to the CG, HRC initial notice and attach-
ments presented to the officer, the officer’s response, if any, and their recommendation. The GCMCA will provide a 
copy of the recommendation to the convicted o fficer. In the case of a judge advocate, chaplain, or medical or nurse 
corps officer, the GCMCA will forward the action through TJAG, OCCH, or the Surgeon General, as appropriate, for 
their recommendation. The CG, HRC, and in appropriate cases TJAG, OCCH, or the Surgeon General, will provide a 
copy of their recommendations to the convicted officer. No other documents, comments, or recommendations will be 
added to the action without referral to the officer for comment. The CG, HRC, will forward the action to  the DASA 
(RB) for decision. Where SECARMY’s delegation of authority restricts action to a superior decision authority, such 
as an officer who has completed more than 18 but less than 20 years of AFS, the DASA (RB) will prepare the action 
for that decision  authority.  
e.  The CG, HRC will issue separation instructions to the appropriate MPD when SECARMY or designee approves 
the recommendation to release the officer from AD. An officer assigned to CONUS or assigned OCONUS, but held 
in a federal or state penit entiary or other correctional institution, will be separated not earlier than 5 calendar days and 
not later than 14 calendar days after the officer is notified of the decision of SECARMY or designee. An officer 
assigned OCONUS who is not currently confined  will be returned to the CONUS TC no later than 21 calendar days 
after the officer is notified, and separated not later than 5 calendar days after the officer arrives at the CONUS TC.  
f.  An officer convicted in any court of the United States of a crime an d sentenced to imprisonment for a term 
exceeding 1 year generally may not hold a Secret or higher security clearance. Final revocation or denial of a Secret 
security clearance will result in the officer’s elimination from the service in the interest of nat ional security.  
g.  If the conviction is subsequently set aside, the officer may consent to be returned to AD. An officer returned to 
AD may be subject to adverse administrative action or court -martial for the conduct that was the subject of the earlier 
criminal proceedings, consistent with the order or action that set aside the conviction.  
h.  The steps required for processing involuntary REFRAD due to civil conviction are shown in table  2  –  10. 
 
Table 2  –  10 
Involuntary release from active duty due to civilian criminal conviction  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 C&S 
BN S  –  1 When an officer is convicted as specified in paragraph 2 -14a, refers the action and documents to the of-
ficer (see fig 2  –  6). Initiates a DA Form 268 according to AR 600  –  8  –  2. 
2 Soldier  a. Forwards acknowledgment of notification within 24 hours (see fig 2  –  4). 
b. Prepares and forwards a written statement or rebuttal (if so desired) within 30 days of notification with 
assistance from legally qualified counsel who may be a member of the JAGC or civilian counsel retained 
by the officer.  
3 PPAA  Determines whether medical board or PEB proceedings are pending or appropriate.  
4 BN S  –  1 Forwards separation requests with detailed recommendation and the officer’s rebuttal (when submitted), 
through the GOSCA to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A); TJAG (DAJA  –  PT); OCCH (DACH  –  PER); or HRC 
(AHRC  –  AR), as appropriate.  
5 C&S The GOSCA will not include any additional documents, comments, or recommendations to the case with-
out referral to the officer for further comment.   

 Table 2  –  10 
Involuntary release from active duty due to civilian criminal conviction  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
6 PPAA (TC)  When separation instructions (TC) are received, separates the officer. Final release orders and forms will 
cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 