
4  –  11.  Respondent  
When a Board of Inquiry convenes to consider an officer’s recommendation for involuntary separation, the board will 
determine whether each allegation in the notice of proposed separation is supported by a preponderance of the evi-
dence. The respondent will be present at all open sessions of the board unless he or she fails to appear before the board 
after timely notice or expressly waives the right to attend. Although a respondent may elect not to attend his or her 
board, th e board will be conducted unless the officer submits a resignation in lieu of elimination, a retirement in lieu 
of elimination, or a request for discharge in lieu of elimination. Additionally, the respondent— 
a.  Will be provided with counsel who is an off icer of the JAGC. Additionally, the respondent may obtain civilian 
counsel of own selection without expense to the Government, provided that procurement of civilian counsel does not 
result in an unreasonable delay. The GOSCA will determine whether a reques ted delay to obtain civilian counsel is 
reasonable. If a requested delay is denied, the determination and the reasons will be stated in writing and made a part 
of the records of proceedings by the GOSCA. The respondent has the right to refuse the assistanc e of any counsel, by 
submitting a signed statement to the GOSCA, in response to the notification to show cause.  
b.  Will be allowed reasonable time, as determined by the Board of Inquiry, to prepare the case. The respondent 
may submit a written request (citing the specific reasons) for continuance to the Board of Inquiry. In no instance will 
the officer have fewer than 30 calendar days from the date of notification of requirement to show cause for retention 
on AD.   

 c.  Will be allowed, at all stages of the p roceedings, full access to the records of the hearings, including all docu-
mentary evidence referred to the board, except when protection of classified documents is clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security. In such cases, the respondent wi ll be furnished, to the extent that the national security 
permits, as determined by SECARMY, a summary of the information contained in the documents withheld.  
d.  May challenge for cause any member of the board. The convening authority will appoint additional members if 
necessary to ensure that the board membership is not reduced to fewer than three officers.  
e.  Will be allowed to appear in person and present evidence or be represented by counsel, before a Board of Inquiry. 
The respondent — 
(1)  Will not be  reimbursed for expenses incident to the appearance or assistance of civilian counsel.  
(2)  At any time after the appointment of the board and before the close of the proceedings, may submit documents 
to the Board of Inquiry from record of service, letters , answers, depositions, sworn or unsworn statements, affidavits, 
certificates, or stipulations. This includes, but is not limited to, depositions of witnesses not deemed to be reasonably 
available or witnesses unwilling to appear voluntarily.  
(3)  Will be allowed to present the case without undue interference by the board. However, unreasonable delays 
will not be tolerated. Such presentations may include any evidence relevant to a respondent’s rehabilitation or refor-
mation as well as any matters in extenuation or mitigation that the respondent desires to present.  
(4)  May testify in person by sworn or unsworn statement or elect to remain silent. Should the respondent elect to 
present sworn testimony, he or she may be required to submit to examination by the board as to any matter concerning 
which he or she testified but not in contravention of the UCMJ, Art. 31. When electing to testify, the respondent is 
entitled to an explanation of rights regarding self -incrimination under UCMJ, Art. 31, and a Privacy Act statement 
will be prepared and signed (see AR 15  –  6). 
f.  May request that witnesses, whose testimony is relevant to the case, appear before the Board of Inquiry.  
g.  May question any witness brought before the board.  
h.  In accordance with paragraph  4  –  20, may at any time prior to final action in their case — 
(1)  Apply for voluntary retirement, if eligible.  
(2)  Tender resignation in lieu of elimination.  
(3)  Request discharge in lieu of elimination (RA officers see 10 USC 1186; other than RA officers see 10 USC 
14905).  
i.  Will be asked before the hearing is terminated to state for the record whether he or she has presented all available 
evidence in behalf. If not, the respondent will be required to make a concise statement  of the substance of the expected 
evidence. The statement and any documentary evidence referred to the board will be included in the record of hearing. 
The board will then determine whether the respondent will be granted additional time to produce such evi dence.  
j.  Will be furnished a copy of the proceedings less classified documents if requested.  
k.  Will have the right to submit to the GOSCA a statement or brief within 7 calendar days after receipt of the Board 
of Inquiry report of proceedings of the cas e. 