
6  –  12.  Provider applicant criteria  
a.  Each FCC director will prepare a standard description of FCC provider caregiving and administrative responsibilities. 
This description will be given to all FCC applicants at the time of application. In addition to the criteria included in the description of duties each applicant, substitute, and (where applicable) family member will meet the following:  
(1)  Must be at least 18 years of age.  
(2)  Will have no conviction of, admission to, or evidence of family violence, child neglect, alcohol abuse or use of 
illegal d rugs by any person working within a FCC home. When the background check is negative (to include references, 
personal, and family interviews) except for an unusual or isolated incident, the CDS Program Review board (PRB), may 
be used to address the issue an d make a recommendation to the commander. A waiver may be granted, based upon the 
recommendation of the PRB; however, waiver authority by the installation commander is limited to a case– by–case basis 
when the overall screening process indicates a home woul d be conducive to the safety and well being of the children in 
care.  
(3)  Must be able to speak, read, and write the English language to the extent that they are able to execute health and 
safety directives and implement developmental activities for childr en effectively as determined by the CDS coordinator.  
(4)  The FCC provider may not hold another job, either full or part –time, during the hours an FCC home is in operation.  
(5)  Adult family members and individuals regularly present in the FCC home during hours in which care is provided 
will be stable, responsible, mature, and of good moral character.  
(6)  The spouse of the FCC provider and all other family members in the home and in contact with children under care 
will agree to the service being offered.  
(7)  The FCC provider must reside in government owned or leased housing or housing located on the installation.  
b.  Each FCC director will prepare an application packet of information necessary for completion of the certification 
process. This will include  the following:  
(1)  Application forms.  
(2)  All pertinent background clearance requests.  
(3)  Physical examination forms.  
(4)  Spouse/family agreement.  
(5)  Certification and training request.  
(6)  Quarters eligibility requirements.  
c.  In addition any pe rson working as an FCC provider, or substitute in the home during the hours care is provided — 
(1)  May not use alcohol or any illegal drugs while the children are in care.  
(2)  Will not use prescription drugs which alter their ability to care for children.  
(3)  Will not smoke in the presence of children or while providing direct care such as diapering, feeding or holding 
children.   

 (a)  A designated smoking area in the FCC home will be established for smokers when children are present. This area 
will be away  from defined child activity spaces.  
(b)  Parents will be advised prior to enrollment of children when an FCC provider is a smoker.  