
5  –  14.  Staffing patterns  
CDC staffing patterns will be established according to guidance provided in the DA PAM 570  –  551. 
a.  A program director or an assistant director will be designated to assume responsibility for overall center operations 
whenever the Center Director is not present on th e premises.  
b.  Professional management staff must be on duty during all hours of program operation.  
c.  At least one individual who has been fully trained in CPR and first aid will be in the center during all hours of 
operation.  
d.  Supervisory caregiving employees will be regularly scheduled full- time or part -time employees.  
e.  Written policies on supervision of children in center -based programs shall include assignment of children to a primary 
caregiving employee who knows the child’s whereabouts at all  times. Primary caregiving employees (regularly scheduled 
full and part –time employees) will be assigned to all children in full– day or part –day programs.  
f.  Intermittent on -call caregiving employees will be used only for limited time periods to substitute for regularly sched-
uled staff or as subordinate staff in hourly care programs and will comprise no more than 25% of the caregiving staff.  
g.  All CDC and other CDS personnel located in the center will be visually identifiable to patrons through the use o f 
name tags which include first and last names. Colorful aprons or smocks may also be used for caregiving employees.  
h.  TACS will not have center supervisory responsibilities and will not be counted in adult \child ratios.  
i.  Rescinded  
j.  Caregiving employees will receive breaks on a regularly scheduled basis. Relief caregiving employees will be pro-
vided to maintain adult/child ratios during staff breaks and for emergency situations. Relief caregiving employees will not 
be assigned to substitute for a bsent caregiving adults without coverage for their own positions.  
k.  Regular and supervisory staff shall be rotated for evening and weekend care to ensure adequate supervision of part –
time and intermittent staff.  