
6  –  1.  Officer retirement program  
a.  This chapter applies to nondisability retirement of ADL commissioned and warrant officers on AD to include 
AGR commissioned and warrant officers who have 20 years or more of AFS. To retire in a commissioned officer 
grade above the warrant officer grades, an officer must generally have at least 10 years of active service as a commis-
sioned officer (see 10 USC 7311).  
b.  A commissioned officer in the rank of major and below may voluntarily retire in the highest rank served satis-
factorily on AD for 6 or more months unless entitled by law to a higher grade (see 10 USC 1370).  
c.  A commissio ned officer must serve on AD 3 years in grade to voluntarily retire in rank above major. However, 
the Secretary of Defense has authorized SECARMY to waive this requirement to not less than 2 years in individual 
cases involving extreme hardship or exception al or unusual circumstances (see 10 USC 1370).  
d.  Under 10 USC 1370, an officer who is serving in or who has served in the grade of general (O  –  10) or lieutenant 
general (O  –  9) may be retired in that grade only after the Secretary of Defense certifies i n writing to the President and 
Congress that the officer served on AD satisfactorily in that grade. A reduction to not less than 2 years’ time in grade 
for a general officer grade to retire in grade may only be exercised if the Secretary of Defense or anot her civilian 
official in the Office of the Secretary of Defense appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of 
the Senate, first approves the reduction and provides advance notice to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
House and Sena te (see 10 USC 1370). In the case of an officer who is serving in or who has served in the grade of 
general (O  –  10) or lieutenant general (O  –  9), the 3 -year service in grade requirement may not be reduced or waived 
while the officer is under investigatio n for alleged misconduct, or while there is pending the disposition of an adverse 
personnel action against the officer for alleged misconduct (see 10 USC 1370).  
e.  Generally, unless entitled to a higher retired grade under some other provision of law, or reduced in accordance 
with a grade determination review conducted under the provisions of AR 15  –  80, a warrant officer retires as determined 
by SECARMY in the permanent Regular or Reserve warrant officer grade, if any, that he or she held on the day before 
retirement or in the higher warrant officer grade, if any, in which he or she served on AD satisfactorily, as determined 
by SECARMY, for a period of more than 30 days (see 10 USC 1371). Retirement in the grades of CW3 through chief 
warrant officer f ive (CW5) for warrant officers serving on the ADL require a minimum of 2 years of AD in the current 
grade, unless entitled by law to a higher grade upon retirement. The CG, HRC may approve exceptions to 2 -year 
service requirement in individual cases when a pproval is in the best interest of the Army, or when substantial hardship 
of the warrant officer would result (see DODI 1332.20).  
f.  When an action is initiated against a commissioned officer with a view to trying such officer by court -martial, 
SECARMY ma y delay that officer’s retirement (without prejudice) until the action is completed (see 10 USC 639).  
g.  All retirements, except for disability separations, involving commissioned officers who, since their last promo-
tion, have been the subject of any subs tantiated adverse finding or conclusion from an officially documented investi-
gation, proceeding, or inquiry (except minor traffic infractions), will be forwarded to DASA (RB) in accordance with 
AR 15  –  80 for a grade determination, provided such information is reflected, or should be reflected by regulation, in 
the officer’s AMHRR. Examples of such findings or conclusions include, but are not limited to, a memorandum of 
reprimand; nonjudicial punishment under UCMJ, Art. 15; court -martial; or civilian convic tion. Even if the information 
is not required to be filed in the officer’s AMHRR, the separation authority may forward any retirement that contains 
information deemed substantiated, adverse, and material to determination of retired grade.  