
3  –  1.  General  
a.  CDS is a basic community support service provided to soldiers; it is not intended to be an income generating activity 
and shall be supported predominately from appropriated funds (APF).  
b.  CDS is established and operated as a category B MWR activity and shall be operated, maintained, and funded by a 
substantial amount o f APF support. APF and nonappropriated funds (NAF) support is authorized according to AR 215  –  1, 
appendix  D. NAF collected as patron fees and charges and used in CDS are administered as part of the installation morale, 
welfare, and recreation fund (IMWRF).  
c.  CDS programs must be funded to meet all DOD and Army standards. CDS operations will use APF as authorized 
and institute reasonable patron fees and charges. Commanders may subsidize CDS operations with NAF from the IMWRF 
as long as the IMWRF remains self –sufficient.  
d.  Affordable child care is predicated on a number of factors; MACOM and installation funding priorities, maximum 
use of APF, total NAF dollars required and degree to which commanders subsidize the progr am with locally generated 
income (LGI), full –day user fees based on total family income, supplemental funding (e.g., USDA CACFP, Combined 
Federal Campaign), State reimbursements, alternative care options to augment CDC and FCC programs, and efficient CDS program management practices with strong internal controls.  
e.  Programs that serve the young soldier such as infant and toddler care may become a revenue user as an alternative to 
rate increases. These age groups require more stringent adult/child ratios resulting in higher labor costs.  
f.  APF resource requirements authorized by AR 215
 –  1 for CDS will be considered with all other program requirements 
and contained in the Program Analysis Resource Review (PARR) submissions. NAF CDS resource requirements w ill be 
budgeted for according to AR 215  –  1. The installation CDS coordinator will submit input to this process.  
g.  See AR 415  –  15 for submission milestones for MCA funded projects.  