
3
 –  5.  Patron fees and charges  
Reasonable CDS user fees to include registration fees and miscellaneous charges for optional services (e.g., music lessons 
and sports for school –age children) are authorized.  
a.  General.   CDS user fees, registration fees, and miscellaneous charges for optional services (e.g., music lessons and 
sports for school –age children) are authorized.  
(1)  Annual registration and miscellaneous fees are authorized per child or  per family. Such fees are nontransferable to 
other installation unless MACOM guidance permits and are non -refundable. The registration fee applies to all CDS systems 
and is assessed and collected by the SPS system, where one exists.  
(2)  Patrons should be  notified of anticipated fee increases in any system and the justification thereof, one month in 
advance of implementation date.  
(3)  Food service is an integral part of CDS programs. There will be no separate charge for meals or snacks.   

 (4)  Fees and char ges for children of installation volunteers (i.e., those individuals who come under the coverage of 
section 1588, title 10 United States Code) may be reimbursed with nonappropriated funds according to AR 215  –  1, para-
graph 3  –  14. CDS volunteers may not be reimbursed from nonappropriated funds for child care expenses (see paragraph  
3  –  15). 
(5)  Bookkeeping practices associated with fee collection should be automated to eliminate excessive admini strative 
labor costs and to insure conformance to local internal control guidelines.  
(6)  Fee structures within comparable adjacent civilian operations.  
(7)  Availability of comparable adjacent civilian operations.  
(8)  Number of children being served and family demographics.  
b.  CDC and school –age care fees.   The MCCA required DOD to prescribe regulations establishing fees that are uniform 
throughout the military and are based on total family income (TFI).  
(1)  DOD fee ranges apply to all children who attend Army CDS center –based full –day and part –day programs and 
school –age care programs regardless of location or proponency (CDS or YS).  
(2)  DOD will publish fee ranges on an annual basis.  
(a)  The high cost fee range can only be used in those designated areas affected by the additional 8% civilian pay increase 
and in those areas where the installation must increase caregiver wages in order to compete in the local labor market. 
Installations may not use the high cost range to compensate for inadequate fund ing with appropriated funds. Higher fee 
ranges may also be used where child caregiver wages are impacted by the cost of living allowance (COLA). The increase in fee ranges may not exceed the percentage amount of the COLA. Higher rates in conjunction with C OLA and the high 
cost range options may not be used simultaneously.  
(b)  CDS patrons must use DD Form 2652, (Application for DOD Child Development Fees), to document total family 
income and determine the appropriate child care rate. DD Form 2652 may be obt ained through normal publication chan-
nels. 
1.  Parents must provide documentation of total family income to include: Leave and earning statements for the sponsor 
and spouse; if living in on– post quarters, the pay table or statement reflecting the amount of  basic allowance for quarters 
or living quarters allowance (BAQ/LQA) soldiers or civilians would receive if they lived off post or fair market value for 
on–post quarters; and verification of any other regularly received income such as monthly or quarterly investment divi-
dends.  
2.  Patrons who choose not to provide required income documentation will be charged the highest category rate.  
3.  CDS will distribute DD Form 2652 to parents. Parents will complete the form and return it to CDS for assignment 
of appr opriate fee category. CDS will coordinate with other agencies (e.g., ACS, finance, housing) to ensure help is avail-
able if parents need special assistance to complete the form.  
4.  CDS is not responsible for form completion or income validation, however, a  periodic audit from an outside source 
may be conducted to review accuracy of submitted information. Parents should be advised when documented pay is in 
contradiction with published pay scales and an audit is anticipated. Suspected fraudulently completed f orms should be 
reported to military unit commanders and or civilian supervisors for investigation and possible disciplinary and or admin-istrative action.  
5.  Installations using standard fee ranges or the high cost options must select an annual fee for each income group 
within the ranges established by DOD. Ranges will be established with or without leave. HQDA will forward new fee ranges to MACOMs annually according to published reporting requirements.  
 
Fees, other than for hourly care, will be charged either monthly or twice a month in advance of services ren-dered. Weekly payment of fees will not be permitted as this contributes to increased administrative workload. 
Weekly fees are authorized only in documented hardship cases on a temporary basis and fo r short term pro-
grams. Commanders may establish local policy for patron refunds for unexpected prolonged absenteeism due 
to serious illness or family emergency.  
Fees for part –day programs (part –day care, school –age care, and part –day preschool age) will be prorated as 
a percentage of full –day fees. Generally children who are attending a kindergarten program which is not lo-
cated in CDS will not be considered full day patrons. Planning time for part –day personnel should be in-
cluded when determining the rates.  
Hourly fees may be flat or graduated. Each hourly care child space should generate the same amount of in-come per day as a full –day space.  
 
6.  Multiple child reductions of 20% or less may be offered when more than one child in a family requires centerbase d 
care. The reductions are given on the less expensive form of care. CDC fees for more than one child per family should not  

 be reduced to such an extent that they lower the quality of services and substantially increase the fees for patrons with one 
child.  
7.  For new program enrollments, installations may require a portion of the first month’s fee as a security deposit to 
ensure commitment to use the space.  
(3)  Installations will not assess FCC providers any fees for participation in the program to includ e the use of any CDS 
toy lending library, initial certification, or ongoing certification except for authorized NAF claims costs (see para 6  –  19). 
(4)  CDC fee schedules will be reviewed semi –annually and should reflect the following guidance.  
(a)  User fees and charges should be established or recommended within a price range that is affordable to eligible 
sponsors.  
(b)  Fee structures should reflect comparable quality of service among CDS programs.  
(c)  Since child care is an employment expense, graduated fee schedules for full –day care and before and after school 
care will be implemented based on total family income, which incorporates both rank and family financial circumstances as factors. data gained from the USDA CACFP enrollment forms and/or leave and earning statements, may be used as a basis for total family income determination and verification. Patrons not wishing to disclose financial information will be 
charged the highest rate reflected on the graduated fee sched ule. 
(d)  Fees for hourly and part –day preschool services may be a flat rate, follow the full –day graduated fee schedule or be 
based on rank.  
(e)  Fees in the center school –age program will be comparable to those charged in the SAS program.  
(5)  Comparable fees will be charged in all SAS before and after school program models, regardless of CDS or YA 
proponency.  
(6)  Fees for CDC programs should generally represent a 20
 –  25 percent price advantage over local civilian rates for 
comparable services . Comparable services means, but is not limited to, equivalent care requirements (e.g., adult/child 
ratios, group sizes and child –age group categories program types); staff qualifications and training requirements; and meal 
services according to USDA guidelines. In instances where there are limited or no comparable operations in the civilian sector (i.e., full– day infant/toddler center –based care, hourly care for all ages or cost of off –post services is extreme due 
to labor costs), the price percentage advantage may be increased to assure soldier accessibility of care.  
(7)  All age group categories within the same program will be charged the same basic rate.  
(8)  CDC fees for more than one child per family should not be reduced to such an extent that they lo wer the quality of 
service and substantially increase the fees for patrons with one child. Multiple child discounts, when offered, should gen-
erally be no more than 20 percent unless the difference is paid by the IMWRF.  
(9)  Fees and charges for children of  installation volunteers (i.e., those individuals who come under the coverage of 
section 1588, title 10 United States Code) may be reimbursed with nonappropriated funds according to AR 215
 –  1, para-
graph 3  –  14. CDS volunteer s may not be reimbursed from nonappropriated funds for child care expenses (see para 3  –  15). 
(10)  Fees for children enrolled in CDC full– day and part –day programs will be collected in advance of services ren-
dered. Fees shou ld be collected bi –weekly or monthly. Commanders may establish local policy for patron refunds for 
unexpected prolonged absenteeism due to serious illness or family emergency.  
(11)  Annual registration and miscellaneous fees are authorized per child or per  family. Such fees are nontransferable to 
other installations unless MACOM guidance permits and are non –refundable. The registration fee will apply to all CDS 
systems. Separate registration fees for individual CDS programs should not be charged.  
(12)  Patrons should be notified of anticipated fee increases and the justification thereof, one month in advance of im-
plementation date.  
(13)  Food service is an integral part of CDS programs. There will be no separate charge for meals or snacks.  
(14)  Bookkeeping practices associated with fee collection should be automated to eliminate excessive administrative 
labor costs and ensure conformance to local internal control guidelines.  
c.  Quarters– based fees.  
(1)  Fees for FCC and SPS homes will be determined by the FCC/SPS provider and the user parent unless the provider 
receives a fee subsidy from the installation. However, recommendations concerning FCC/SPS homes fee ranges (upper 
and lower limits) will be established in writing by the FCC/SPS director, taking into  consideration fees charged in center –
based programs and type of services provided. Guidance will be reviewed semi –annually.  
(2)  Installations will not assess FCC/SPS providers any fees for participation in the program to include the use of any 
CDS toy le nding library, initial certification, or ongoing certification except for authorized NAF claims costs (see para  
6  –  19) for FCC providers.  