
4  –  35.  Nutrition  
Nutritious foods that help meet the child’s total nutritional needs will be provided by all CDCs, FCC providers, and appli-
cable SPS programs. Food provided by parents will be limited to infant formula, baby food, special diets, and food for 
special occasions.  
a.  Meals (breakfast, lunch, dinner) and snacks will be provided appropriate to the hour s children are in care. No child 
will go without nourishment for more than three consecutive hours. If a late breakfast is served, the mid –morning snack 
may be eliminated. All children enrolled in part –day programs will be served a minimum of a nutritious snack.  
b.  Children in care for five to eight hours during a day will be given one third of their daily nutritional needs in the 
program. Children cared for from eight to twelve hours must be served two thirds of their daily nutritional needs in the 
progra m. Children in care over 12 hours must be served all of their daily nutritional requirements.  
c.  Menu components and quantities for meals and snacks will comply with USDA CACFP regulations for all age groups 
regardless of formal enrollment in the USDA CAC FP. Infant meal components and quantities will be based on the meal 
pattern requirements for infants specified in the USDA CACFP unless otherwise recommended in writing by the child’s 
physician. Foods which are not considered as creditable foods in the CAC FP may not be used to fulfill meal component 
requirements. Use of foods high in sugar, salt and fat will be limited.  
d.  Children under two years of age will not be served foods which block the trachea (windpipe) and cause choking and 
possible asphyxiation . 
e.  Honey and low fat or skim milk will not be served to children under 12 months of age.  
f.  All menus will be posted or otherwise made available to parents.  
g.  Dated menus with substitutions recorded will be maintained within the files for review purp oses for one year or as 
required by USDA.  
h.  The nutritional aspects of CDS food programs, including menu planning and nutrition education will be coordinated 
with the MTF dietitian.  