
3  –  2.  APF support  
a.  APF support may be provided according to AR 215  –  1, AR 570  –  5, AR 415  –  35, AR 385  –  10, DA Pam 570  –  551, AR 
105  –  23, AR 58  –  1, and AR 37  –  103  –  1. APF shall be used for CDC construction and renovation; meeting such operating 
costs as equipment, supplies, utilities, custodial and maintenance services; administrative and supervisory personnel; train-
ing and travel; and other authorized uses. Reference should be made directly to these regulations for detailed guidance. 
Information contained in these regulations that directly impacts on CDS program management is summarized in appendix B. For sites validated as remote and isolated, all manpower staffing positions are authorized APFs, based on availability 
of local funding.  
b.  APF may be used to establish and maintain lending libraries and training materials for use by providers, as well as 
for travel expenses of FCC/SPS directors, outreach workers, TACS, and CDS coordinators using their private vehicles to 
perform Government functions.  
c.  APF may be used for food in c enter programs if the food purchased is not resold (i.e., as parent or staff meals). 
Eligible CDC programs must be enrolled in the USDA CACFP program and USDA reimbursements must be maximized 
prior to use of APF for food. Any food purchased with APF cannot  be claimed for USDA reimbursement. The most current 
procedural guidance from HQDA will be followed.  
d.  CDC Patron fees.  
(1)  Facility based programs shall be operated, maintained and funded with direct APF at least equal to the amount of 
user fees collected.  
(2)  Parent fees collected for center child care services can be used only to compensate employees directly involved in 
providing child care (e.g., caregiving staff including teachers) and for child development center food service and sanitation  
expen ses (e.g., cook salary, cleaning supplies, food, etc.), consumable supplies, and some non –capital equipment.  
(3)  Parent fees may not be used to compensate management and clerical staff. These positions must be paid with APF 
or NAF other than those from pa rent fees.  
e.  FCC Providers.   

 (1)  Direct and or indirect APF support are authorized for FCC providers who provide care for the children of members 
of the Armed Forces and DOD civilian employees. APF subsidies can help reduce the turnover and indirect cost s of pro-
vider training, screening, and home inspections as well as maintain user fees at an affordable level. The FCC APF subsidy 
is the differential between the true cost of child care and that portion of the costs passed on to the patron as a fee.  
(2)  Provision of the FCC subsidy assistance program will be at the discretion of the installation commander and should 
be implemented when necessary to ensure eligible patrons receive FCC child care services comparable to the quality and 
cost of similar services in military CDCs and or to increase the availability of care for a specific age group (e.g., infants) or type (e.g. hourly) of care. Prior to offering the subsidy assistance program an update ICCAP will be completed to verify 
true need (e.g., competition  with other delivery systems will be avoided; current and projected installation demographics 
will be considered).  
(a)  Provisions for direct APF subsidies may include, but are not limited to food subsidies for OCONUS providers and 
subsidies to encourage p roviders to offer child care services which would be significantly more costly to provide in a 
center –based setting, e.g., sick child care, special needs care, care of HIV infected children, and extended hours care.  
(b)  Provisions for indirect APF subsidi es which may include, but are not limited to access to toy and equipment lending 
libraries including provisions for long –term consignments; provision of expendable curriculum/program supplies; full or 
partial payment of RIMP annual provider assessment cost ; or a substitute provider pool for selective/ emergency purposes 
(e.g. medical appointments, special off –site training, provider “vacation” day and or respite care).  
(3)  Potential for increasing the availability of care, providing affordable care, improv ing the quality of care, and high 
turnover of FCC providers should be considered by the installation before establishing an FCC subsidy assistance program. 
Installations will also determine unique conditions which make subsidizing appropriate, (e.g., finan cial capability of eligi-
ble personnel; unusual service requirements and unique mission related provider responsibilities; fee structures of other 
available military child care operations and adjacent civilian programs in comparison to FCC fee ranges; number of chil-
dren being served; and the installation child care waiting list).  
(4)  The FCC director will be responsible for administrative functions according to HQDA procedural guidance to in-
clude:  
(a)  Developing a Standing Operating Procedure (SOP) for the  FCC subsidy assistance program.  
(b)  Coordinating with office responsible for resource management.  
(c)  Provisions for publicizing the FCC subsidy assistance with FCC providers and parent users.  
(d)  Monitoring the operation of the FCC subsidy assistance program according to the established SOP.  
f.  APF may be used for direct cash subsidies to FCC providers so FCC services can be provided to military and DOD 
civilians at a cost comparable to the average cost of services provided in CDCs.  