
2  –  1.  Headquarters, Department of the Army (HQDA)  
a.  The Assistant Chief of Staff for Installation Management (ACSIM) has overall responsibility for policy guidance in 
implementing CDS. The Commander, USACFSC will perform the following functions for the ACSIM:  
(1)  To the extent permitted by law, formulate DA policy on CDS using the criteria shown below:  
(a)  Does the action strengthen or erode the stability of the family and, in particular, the marital commitment?  
(b)  Does the action strengthen or erode the authority and rights of parents in the education, nurture, and supervision of 
their children?  
(c)  Does the action help the family perform its functions or substitute governmental activity for the f unction?  
(d)  Does the action increase or decrease family earnings? Do the proposed benefits of the action justify the impact on 
the family budget?  
(e)  Can the activity be carried out by a lower level of Government, or by the family itself?  
(f)  What mess age, intended or otherwise, does the program send to the public concerning the status of the family?  
(g)  What message does the program send to young people concerning the relationship between their behavior, their 
personal responsibility, and the norms of  our society?  
(2)  Ensure HQDA CDS personnel are professionally qualified.  
(3)  Identify CDS needs and resource requirements to Army leadership.  
 

 b.  The Chief, Soldier and Family Support Directorate, Child and Youth Services Division within the USACFSC wil l— 
(1)  Establish and maintain plans, policy, administrative procedures, program materials, and operational guidance for 
CDS delivery systems.  
(2)  Define professional standards for CDS program development and operation.  
(3)  Develop and publish minimum standards as defined by appropriate Department of Army (DA) staff proponents for 
fire, health, facilities, safety, and prevention of child abuse.  
(4)  Develop and approve functional design requirements for CDS facilities in coordination with the Office of the Chief 
of Engineers (CEEC  –  EA) and the DA Facility Standardization Subcommittee for CDS Facilities.  
(5)  Exercise program oversight of CDS Military Construction, Army (MCA) Program and upgrade or waiver status of 
existing facilities.  
(6)  Develop and approve program materials to address special needs programs, nutrition, health, and child abuse in 
child development settings from a CDS operational perspective.  
(7)  Develop an Army –wide comprehensive CDS standard training plan for all levels of CDS employ ees and FCC pro-
viders.  
(8)  Support training workshops sponsored by major Army commands (MACOMs) for installation CDS personnel.  
(9)  Visit, monitor, and provide technical assistance to MACOMs and installations.  
(10)  Approve and monitor CDS programs and f acilities for participation in the United States Department of Agriculture 
(USDA) Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP).  
(11)  Coordinate and submit CDS resource requirements through program and budget channels to include oversight of 
CDS Management Decision Package (MDEP) execution.  
(12)  Distribute CDS resources as required to MACOMs.  
(13)  Consult and coordinate with related activities within DOD as well as other agencies and organizations to broaden 
input on CDS policy issues.  
(14)  Develop guidance for statements of work for contracting the management and operation of CDS Programs.  
(15)  Function as the proponent for CDS issues and initiatives in support of the Army Family Action Plan (AFAP), 
General Accounting Office (GAO) studies, Congressional inquiries and special actions.  
(16)  Coordinate and monitor research efforts and initiatives impacting on CDS programs.  
(17)  Develop and implement a quality assurance system in coordination with MACOMs to assess program effective-
ness, quality of service, and the efficiency of overall CDS operations.  
(18)  Collect and analyze MACOM and installation CDS data for compliance with DOD and Army program and facility 
standards, and determine resource requirements, program trends, and initiatives that have an impact on CDS policy.  
(19)  Conduct periodic announced and unannounced onsite inspections with ARSTAF regulatory proponents to deter-
mine installation compliance with policy fire, health, nutrition, safety, program, child abuse, and facility structural stand-
ards; and report findings as directed to ACSIM, the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
ASA(M&RA), and the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Family Support, Education and Safety).  
(20)  Write and distribute an Army CDS Resourc e List annually.  
c.  The Surgeon General (TSG) (DASG  –  PSP) will — 
(1)  Develop CDS health standards and related health aspects of CDS and oversee implementation of nutrition standards.  
(2)  Provide professional services and technical assistance required to  support CDS programs to include preventive 
medicine and community health nursing personnel, pediatricians, and child psychiatrists.  
(3)  Staff policy related to health, nutritional, environmental, and sanitation aspects of CDS facilities and program op-
erations.  
d.  The Director of Army Safety (DACS  –  SF) will — 
(1)  Develop CDS safety standards.  
(2)  Provide technical assistance relative to the safety aspects of CDS facilities and operations.  
e.  The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) (DAJA  –  ALG) will provide legal advice as necessary. The Command Judge 
Advocate U.S. Army Community and Family Support Center will provide primary legal advice and assistance to CDS.  
f.  The Chief of Engineers (HQ, USACE) (CEEC) will — 
(1)  Develop CDS facility and fire standards.  
(2)  Provide technical guidance on all design and construction matters concerning CDS facilities including site, building, 
and utilities.  
(3)  Issue design guides, standard designs, and supplementary criteria as issued in the Architectural and Engineering 
Instruction (AEI) design criteria and requirements for constructing and renovating CDCs.  
(4)  Review and approve projects submitted on DD Form 1391 (Fiscal Year Military Construction Project data) for 
technical accuracy and conformance with prescribed criter ia, cost engineering requirements and DA policy and guidance.  
g.  The Commander, U.S. Army Command Criminal Investigation (USACIDC) will —  

 (1)  Support requirements for background investigations for CDS personnel.  
(2)  Monitor the process for thoroughness, effectiveness, and prompt response.  
h.  The Commander, United States Army Force Integration Support Agency (USAFISA) will — 
(1)  Provide manpower management and TDA documentation assistance for CDS programs throughout the Army 
(CFSC, MACOM, installations) including update or publication of staffing criteria for CDS programs (DA Pam 570  –  551).  
(2)  Provide guidelines on APF and NAF staffing patterns.  