
6  –  38.  Unauthorized child care  
When unauthorized child care occurring in Government owned or leased housing is brought to the attention of CD S the 
following steps will be taken:  
a.  FCC management personnel will visit the home within 3 working days, to verify whether or not an individual is 
operating a FCC home without valid certification. FCC management personnel will not enter the housing unit without the consent of an adult occupant. If the occupant refuses admittance, the Provost Marshall will be contacted.  
b.  If it is determined that care in excess of 10 child care hours per week is being provided on a regular basis, the 
individual providing care will be informed in writing within two working days after the visit by the installation commander  

 of the violation and given notice to cease care immediately. Those individuals occupying Government housing will be 
advised that their housing privile ges may be terminated if the care continues. A copy of this letter will be sent to the DEH.  
c.  If the individual expresses a willingness to become certified and if there is an opening in the FCC caseload, the 
director may begin certification procedures wh ich include the following:  
(1)  Local background check.  
(2)  Orientation training.  
(3)  Consent for home inspections.  
(4)  Child abuse prevention training.  
(5)  Successful completion of fire, health and safety inspections.  
(6)  Prescreening interview.  
d.  If the individual is determined to be a qualified candidate, the director can on a case– by–case basis, work out a plan 
for care of the children which minimizes the disruption to the children already in care.  
e.  Parents of the children in care will be notified in writing of the status of the individual providing care; and that the 
person is not certified.  
f.  When an uncertified individual meets the criteria listed in paragraph  6–38c the children may return to care as long as  
the number of children under care is in accordance with this regulation and the following restrictions are in effect:  
(1)  No additional children will receive care until all requirements for provisional certification are complete.  
(2)  FCC management pers onnel will make unannounced visits to the home at least weekly until all requirements are 
complete.  
(3)  If the individual does not become provisionally certified at the first possible opportunity after the resumption of 
care, the FCC home will be closed. The individual involved will be advised of this policy.  
g.  When an individual who has been notified in writing of violation of Army FCC requirements, has made no attempt 
to begin certification process (within 10 days of receipt of notice of violation and is continuing to provide care), CDS 
personnel will again notify the installation commander and the family housing personnel in writing along with a recom-
mendation as to further action.  