
7  –  29.  Special interest programs  
Child care may be provided by Army or DOD activities other than CDS to meet unique patron care requirements related 
to these activities and not available through CDS operated programs.  
a.  Programs offered on a regularly scheduled basis, e.g., those which meet at the same time one or more times per week, 
such as chaplain sponsored preschools or special needs programs operated under the EFMP will meet all CDS standards applicable to the center –based program for the age group served. Facilit y standards are waived if program is structured so 
that a parent or guardian is on –site immediately accessible during the duration of the child care program.  
b.  ACS volunteer child care offered on an intermittent basis will meet the guidelines for VCCUS ( para 7
 –  22). 
c.  The SPS director will assist these special interest programs operated by Army and tenant activities by — 
(1)  Providing technical assistance in developing SOPs which comply with regulatory requirements and in clude, but are 
not limited to — 
(a)  Program management.  
(b)  Program operations.  
(c)  Personnel criteria.  
(d)  Training.  
(e)  Child abuse prevention and response procedures.  
(f)  Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.  
(2)  Providing training for members  of the Army and tenant activities to ensure quality programming and care of the 
children enrolled is maintained.  
(3)  Assisting in meeting staff background clearance requirements according to paragraph  2  –  24. 
(4)  Maintaining oversight and technical assistance responsibilities to the activities.  
(5)  Including Army and tenant activity child care information in the CDS resource and referral service.  
(6)  Collecting and reporting Army and tenant activity child care information on DA Form 5246  –  R annually.  
(7)  Maintaining records on number of special interest programs, number and ages of children served, number/rank of 
sponsors served, and annotated summary of special interest programs.  
d.  Special interest programs w ill be evaluated in the ICCET process and with parent satisfaction surveys.  