
4  –  5.  CDS central enrollment registry  
a.  An installation CDS Central Enrollment Registry of all children en rolled in CDS programs including the SAS pro-
gram regardless of proponency will be implemented. The registry will — 
(1)  Ensure care is available to the maximum number of eligible patrons, both military and civilian.  
(2)  Serve as a “one stop” service to CDS  patrons.  
(3)  Monitor placement of children.  
(4)  Maintain DA Forms 4719  –  R and the FCP form or information with original signatures. This information will be 
used in case of emergency circumstances or deployment.  
b.  The CDS Central Enrollment Registry will be implemented as part of the SPS delivery system and will be located in 
a convenient site for all incoming personnel. Installations with unique demographic situations may implement substations for enrollment, however consolidated data must be maintai ned at a central location. The CDS Central Enrollment Registry 
should be identified as an out processing point when personnel are transferred from the installation to ensure departing 
personnel are removed from the CDS waiting list and to verify final paym ent for services.  
c.  DA Form 4719
 –  R for CDS enrollment will be completed and maintained in the CDS Central Enrollment Registry. 
A copy will be maintained by all systems where the child receives care.  
d.  An excess demand waiting list and preference for care and projected demand subwaiting lists will be maintained as 
needed and continuously update by the Central Enrollment Registry. The SPS director will develop an SOP for mainte-
nance of the centralized waiting list system based on the current procedural guidance from HQDA. Administrative proce-dures will include — 
(1)  Designated employee(s) who maintain the waiting list and the subwaiting lists.  
(2)  Designation of a readily accessible location for the list.  
(3)  Recording of regular updates, no less than quarterly.  
(4)  Program directors’ responsibility for notifying the Central Enrollment Registry personnel when children are with-
drawn from the program.  
(5)  Established installation policies addressing waiting list issues. These policies will cover the following items:  
(a)  Central Enrollment Registry planning team (CERPT) membership and operation.  
(b)  Priorities for service per paragraph  1
 –  6, and installation policies for placement of siblings.  
(c)  Time allowance between notification and required attendance to ensure the timely filling of vacancies.  
(d)  Procedures to ensure no duplications are included in information reported to higher headquarters when central en-
rollment substations are used.  
(e)  Installations will follow the most current waiting list procedural guidance issued by HQDA.  
(f)  Time allowance between notification and required attendance.   

 e.  Sole/dual military parents will be given priority on waiting lists for CDS programs which support duty requirements.  
f.  Unborn infants may be placed on waiting lists prior to birth. Unborn infants who reach the top of waiting list prior to 
the child’s birth may retain their priority status until child is six weeks of age or until a vacancy is available after that time.  
g.  Parents may not use their priority status more than once in a given program, except in unusual circumstances ap-
proved by CDS coordinator. Priority status on waiting lists is forfeited, if parent(s) turn down an available vacancy when 
offered by CDS program, except in unusual circumstances approved by the CDS coordinator.  
h.  Family care plan information will be authenticated, retained, and update according to paragraph  4–2c(7). 
i.  Program directors in full –day and part –day CDC programs, regularly scheduled SPS programs, and FCC systems 
will notify the CDS central enrollment registry when children are withdrawn from a program.  
j.  All information required for the completion of DA Form 5246  –  R maintained by the CDS Centr al Enrollment Regis-
try, will be provided to CDS system and program directors by the SPS director annually.  
Section III  
Program Operations Compliance Requirements  