
5  –  12.  Involuntary early separation due to force shaping  
a.  SECARMY may, when authorized by the Secretary of Defense, conduct officer separation boards for force 
shaping purposes, subject to the limi tations of 10 USC 638 and DODI 1332.32.  
b.  An officer serving on the ADL selected for early separation will be discharged from the RA on a date determined 
by SECARMY, except when retention or deferral is authorized under another provision of law and, when required, 
approved by the appropriate authority prior to the established discharge date. The established discharge date will be 
provided to the officer in an official notice of selection for early separation.  
c.  If the officer is eligible for retirement under any provision of law on the established discharge date, the officer 
will be retired under that provision on the date requested and approved by the Secretary, which may not be later than 
the established discharge date.  
d.  An officer’s discharge under  this paragraph will be under honorable conditions and a DD Form 256 will be 
issued.  
e.  The steps required for processing the involuntary early separation due to force shaping are shown in table  5  –  9. 
 
Table 5  –  9 
Involuntary early separation due to force shaping  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 C&S The commander personally notifies the officer of their selection for early separation. The commander will 
counsel the officer regarding their options.  
2 Soldier  The officer is notified and counseled by commander. The officer signs the acknowledgment of notification 
and election of options and forwards to CG, HRC by the established suspense date.  
3 C&S The commander ensures the officer’s acknowledgment and election of options is forwarded to CG, HRC, 
by the established suspense date.  
4 PPAA  
(TC) Upon receipt of the established separation date and the officer’s election of options from CG, HRC, pro-
cesses the officer for discharge/transfer to Retired List, as applicable. A copy of the acknowledgment and 
election of options will be filed in the officer’s AMHRR. Separation forms will cite regulatory authority and 
SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1.  