
4  –  6.  Board of Inquiry  
a.  The Board of Inquiry’s purpose is to give the officer a fair and impartial hearing determining if the officer will 
be retained in the Army. Through a formal administrative investigation conducted under AR 15  –  6 and this regulation, 
the Board of Inquiry es tablishes and records the facts of the respondent’s alleged misconduct, substandard perfor-
mance of duty, or conduct incompatible with military service. Based upon the findings of fact established by its in-
vestigation and recorded in its report, the board t hen makes a recommendation for the officer’s disposition, consistent 
with this regulation. The Government is responsible to establish, by preponderance of the evidence, that the officer 
has failed to maintain the standards desired for their grade and branch or that the officer’s Secret -level security clear-
ance has been permanently denied or revoked by appropriate authorities acting pursuant to DODI 5200.02 and AR 
380  –  67. In the absence of s uch a showing by the Government, the board will retain the officer. The respondent is 
entitled to produce evidence to show cause for retention and to refute the allegations. The respondent’s complete 
AMHRR will be entered in evidence by the Government and considered by the Board of Inquiry.  
b.  Boards of Inquiry are appointed by the appropriate GOSCA. Concurrence must be obtained from the appropriate 
commander when an officer assigned to a different command is used on a Board of Inquiry. The local installat ion 
convening the Board of Inquiry will fund the travel of board members from other installations.  
c.  The GOSCA will advise members of a Board of Inquiry that duty on the board takes priority over all other duties 
unless properly excused by the appointing  authority.  
d.  The Board of Inquiry will be completed no later than 120 calendar days from the date the GOSCA is notified by 
HRC to conduct the Board of Inquiry or, on a GOSCA initiated elimination, 90 days from the date the GOSCA directs 
that a Board of Inquiry be conducted. Whenever completion of the Board of Inquiry is delayed beyond the established 
time, the GOSCA will notify HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) by electronic message of the reason for the delay and the pro-
jected date for the Board of Inquiry to be com pleted.  
e.  The CG, U.S. Army Military District of Washington, will have jurisdiction as GOSCA for all personnel assigned 
or attached to the U.S. Army Military District of Washington. This authority may be delegated by the CG, U.S. Army 
Military District o f Washington, in appropriate cases to officers who could otherwise act as GOSCAs.  
f.  The GOSCA will issue the orders appointing the Boards of Inquiry.  
g.  Except as modified by this regulation, the board will conform to the provisions of AR 15  –  6 applica ble to formal 
proceedings with respondents.  