
1  –  4.  Child Development Services (CDS) program objectives  
The objectives of Army CDS are to — 
a.  Promote the quality of the force by — 
(1)  Supporting readiness by reducing lost duty time due to conflict between parental responsibilities and unit mission 
requirements. Child development programs will, in priority order — 
(a)  Assist DOD military and civilian personnel working parent or full– time students parents of children under th e age 
of 6 to locate at least one affordable option for quality child care.  
(b)  Assist DOD military and civilian personnel who are working parents or full– time student parents of school –age 
children in locating at least one affordable option for quality c hild care.  
(c)  Expand the availability of care through use of resource and referral (R&R) programs to quality affordable options 
both on and off the installation.  
(d)  Whenever possible, support the needs of personnel for hourly care and part –day preschoo l programs in facilities 
and programs other than the Child Development Centers.  
(2)  Promoting military retention by providing services that increase soldier satisfaction with the Army as a way of life.  
(3)  Contributing to the quality of life and well–being of families in the command with young children.  
b.  Support parental child –rearing responsibilities by providing developmentally appropriate quality care options for 
children.  
c.  Operate using measurable standards and compliance assurance procedures to ensure that continuity and consistency 
of CDS operations exist Army –wide.  
d.  Contribute favorably to the growth and development of children while they are in the Army’s care.  
e.  Support Service families in their effort to attain economic self –sufficiency by providing accessible and affordable 
child care for working parents.  
f.  Provide employment and career advancement opportunities within CDS programs for military and Department of 
Defense (DOD) civilian family members.  
g.  Support community activities in their effort to improve the quality of life by providing accessible and affordable 
child care for community volunteers.  