
4  –  9.  Recorder of the Board of Inquiry  
a.  The board recorder will be a judge advocate or DA Civilian attorney who is permanently assigned to the board. 
The board service will constitute the recorder’s primary duty; however, it will not preclude other duties when the 
workload permits (a lternate or assistant recorders may be detailed to the Board of Inquiry).  
b.  The recorder is responsible for the proper presentation and handling of the government case, to include the 
development of new evidence pertinent to the factual allegations in th e case. The recorder’s duties are not discharged 
by a perfunctory entering in the record of evidence provided by the DA. The recorder will investigate the case, seek 
new evidence that may be locally available, and become thoroughly familiar with the respon dent’s history and the 
deficiencies or conduct (as appropriate) that led the selection board; CG, HRC; or GOSCA to conclude that the officer 
fails to meet prescribed standards or has been derelict in moral professional duties. The recorder will also be abl e to 
place evidence offered by the respondent in perspective with the remainder of the officer’s military record.  
c.  If, during the course of the recorder’s investigation of the case, the recorder finds additional evidence similar in 
nature to that previo usly presented to the officer under paragraph  4  –  2, that evidence is admissible. This additional  

 evidence may be considered by the Board of Inquiry as proof of an amended or new factual allegation in support of a 
reason for elimination.  
(1)  Only in those instances where the newly discovered evidence results in the addition of a reason for elimination 
(not included in the officer’s notification memorandum) is it necessary to return the case to the CG, HRC or GOSCA 
for issuanc e of a new notification memorandum.  
(2)  The fact that the additional evidence may support the stated reason of conduct unbecoming an officer does not 
in itself allow its consideration unless it can also be related to another enumerated reason for eliminat ion in paragraph  
4  –  2, which was included in the officer’s notification memorandum (see para 4–2b(8)). 
(3)  If such additional evidence is considered and if the board determines that the offi cer has not had a reasonable 
period of time to prepare a response to such evidence, reasonable delay must be granted on the officer’s request.  
d.  The recorder will not assist the board in drafting its findings and recommendations but will, in addition to the 
duties in paragraphs 4 –9a through 4–9c, comply with AR 15  –  6 and complete the following:  
(1)  Notify the officer (in writing and not less than 10 calendar days before the convene date) of t he time and location 
where the Board of Inquiry will convene.  
(2)  Allow the officer access to releasable records and furnish copies (if desired) prior to the hearing, as is reasonably 
necessary, for the respondent to prepare and present the case.  
(3)  Obtain two copies of the respondent’s AMHRR and ORB from HRC (AHRC  –  MSR) or the NGB, as appropri-
ate. 
(4)  At the initial session, read the order/letter appointing the board.  
(5)  Enter in the record the time, date, place, and station and indicate the pres ence of the board members, respondent, 
and counsel (if any).  
(6)  Administer the oath to board members, legal advisor, witnesses, and reporter.  
(7)  Ensure all records and documents relating to the case are provided to the board members.  
(8)  Verbally pres ent to the board a synopsis of the entire case, when appropriate.  
(9)  Cross -examine the witnesses called by the respondent or their counsel.  