
4  –  33.  Progr am health and sanitation practices  
a.  Each CDS coordinator and program manager will ensure that accepted health and sanitation procedures are followed 
at all times to ensure the health and well –being of the children and staff.  
(1)  CDS caregiving employee s, FCC provider, cooks, and food service workers will use handwashing techniques as 
recommended by the Centers for Disease Control (see app  C). 
(2)  Adult hand –washing facilities will be located in infant and toddler care areas within center –based programs.  
(3)  Disposable towels or forced air hand dryers with protective screens (in adult areas only) and soap must be provided 
in centers for staff and child use.  
(4)  Children’s hands will be washed with soap and water b efore and after eating, after going to the toilet, before partic-
ipating in water play, cooking activities, after outdoor play and diaper changes.  
(5)  Soiled clothing and diapers must be changed promptly. Parents must supply an extra set of clothing for em ergency 
use for infants and toddlers in hourly care and children of all ages enrolled in full –day care.  
(6)  Toilet rooms and fixtures will be sanitary and odor free at all times.  
(7)  Personal toilet items such as combs, toothbrushes, towels, wash clothes , and similar items may not be stored or used 
in common.  
(8)  Dirty linen must be separated from storage of clean linen, food, and other supplies and will be inaccessible to 
children.  
(9)  Toys and equipment used by children under age three must be washed and sanitized with the bleach solution at least 
daily. Toys used by older children will be washed and sanitized as needed, but a minimum of weekly.  
(10)  Unless otherwise specified, all reference to “sanitized” refers to the use of a standard bleach soluti on (i.e., 1⁄4 cup 
of bleach to 1 gallon of water). This solution will be used for every day cleaning and sanitizing of items and surfaces (e.g. , 
diaper changing surfaces, table tops, and toys).  
(11)  When surfaces have been contaminated by body secretions such as feces, urine, and blood, the following proce-
dures will be performed to sanitize area:  
(a)  Vigorously wash with soap and water.  
(b)  Rinse with water.  
(c)  Wash with bleach solution of 1⁄4  cup bleach to one gallon water.  
(d)  Wipe dry.  
b.  Water s upply procedures are as follows:  
(1)  Water supplies will be from approved sources and will comply with AR 40  –  5. 
(2)  Drinking water will be within or immediately accessible to child activity rooms/modules and in outside play areas.   

 (3)  Hot water temperature in plumbing fixtures used by children in centers must not exceed 110º F with an appropriate 
range of 80  –  95ºF. 
c.  Lead –based paint (see paras  5  –  48 and 6–50b). 
d.  Isolation area  (see paras  5  –  32, 5  –  33 and 6–40b). 
e.  Custodial and housekeeping services (see paras  5  –  37 and 6  –  41). 
f.  Health inspection requirements (see paras  5  –  50 and 6  –  40). 
g.  Sick child care (see paras  5  –  52, 6–9e, and 7  –  35). 