
2  –  22.  General  
a.  Caregiving employees and FCC providers will o bserve children in care for evidence of child abuse and neglect.  
b.  The CDS coordinator will be a member of the FACMT according to AR 608  –  18. 
c.  All allegations of child abuse involving children in care in a CDS setting will be reported to the Family A dvocacy 
Program (FAP) RPOC and military police or CID as appropriate according to AR 608  –  18. 
d.  CDS internal reporting requirements are listed below:  
(1)  CDC.   CDC personnel suspecting or observing evidence of child abuse or neglect in a center –based s etting will 
report immediately and directly to the CDC Center director or designee in the absence of the director.  
(a)  The CDC Center director will be present when information is immediately forwarded to the RPOC and will simul-
taneously inform the CDC program director and the CDS coordinator of the report provided.  
(b)  To the extent permitted by the Privacy Act (see AR 340  –  21), confirmation of action taken will be provided to the 
individual making the original report of the allegation, by the Center director within 24 hours.  
(2)  FCC homes.   FCC providers, observing evidence of child abuse or neglect of children in a FCC home will report 
immediately and directly to RPOC and simultaneously inform the FCC director/outreach worker of the report provided.  
(a)  The FCC outreach worker will immediately inform the FCC director who will inform the CDS coordinator.  
(b)  To the extent permitted by the Privacy Act (see AR 340  –  21), confirmation of action taken will be provided to the 
individual making the original report of the allegation by the FCC director/outreach worker within 24 hours.  
(3)  Outreach workers.   FCC outreach workers and TACS observing evidence of child abuse or neglect in an FCC home 
will report information immediately and directly to the FCC director.  
(a)  The FCC director will report information immediately to the RPOC and simultaneously inform the CDS coordinator 
of the report provided.  
(b)  To the extent permitted by the Privacy Act (see AR 340  –  21), confirmation of action taken will be pr ovided to the 
individual making the original report of the allegation by the FCC director within 24 hours.   

 (4)  SPS Programs.   SPS personnel observing evidence of child abuse or neglect in an SPS setting will report immedi-
ately and directly to the SPS director or the CDS coordinator in the absence of an SPS director.  
(a)  The SPS director will report information immediately to the RPOC and simultaneously inform the SPS program 
official.  
(b)  To the extent permitted by the Privacy Act (see AR 340  –  21), conf irmation of action taken will be provided to the 
individual making the original report of the allegation by the SPS director within 24 hours.  
e.  Each CDS delivery system will prepare a child abuse SOP which will be coordinated with the Army Community 
Services (ACS) FAPM. This SOP will include — 
(1)  Definitions of abuse and neglect according to AR 608  –  18. 
(2)  Internal CDS reporting procedures.  
(3)  Training requirements.  
(4)  Child abuse prevention training for parents.  
(5)  Program management prevention strategies.  
(6)  Actions to be taken in response to an allegation.  
(7)  Patron notification and public relations efforts.  
(8)  Policy infractions vs. reportable child abuse.  
f.  Each center –based setting and FCC home will post procedures for reporting chi ld abuse and applicable phone num-
bers.  
g.  During the investigation of a child abuse allegation CDS management personnel will — 
(1)  Provide access to administrative files, attendance records, work schedules, incident reports, parent addresses and 
phone num bers or any other official records to investigators and Army personnel with an official need to know.  
(2)  Provide access to subordinate personnel for investigative interviews.  
(3)  Take notes, make observations, and record relevant management information during the investigation.  