
7  –  42.  Program evaluation  
SPS will be assessed for compliance with standards and monitored for quality assurance on a regular basis as o utlined in 
section X. A quality assurance plan will be developed jointly by the SPS director and the CDS coordinator. Major program 
oversight components include — 
a.  Use of the CDC and FCC risk assessment tools as applicable by program (see paras  5–54b and 6–52b) for SPS 
programs which meet one or more days per week.  
b.  System wide assessment as part of the ICCET (see paras  2  –  5, 5  –  4 and 6–52c). 
c.  Program accreditation for SPS center –based programs which provide full –day services (see para 5–54d). 
  

 Table 7 –1 
Supplemental Programs and Services Summary Requirements  — Continued  
Service: Baby -sitter training and Services Summary Requirements  
Ratios: N/A. 
Staff training requirements: Ten hours minimum locally developed training according to the local baby -sitter training SOP.  
Staff background clearance requirements: N/A. 
Staff health requirements: N/A.  
Facility requirements: N/A.  
Location: On and off –post housing.  
Registration requirements: Baby -sitter: Agreement for inclusion on baby -sitter referral list. Parental permission for inclusion on baby -
sitter referral list. Completion of approved training.  
Child health requirements: N/A. 
Program requirements: N/A. 
Nutrition compliance requirements: N/A. 
Reporting/compliance requirements: SPS director maintains the following: number  of teens and adults trained; number of teens and 
adults registered; number of sitter referrals; and referral list update (quarterly).  
Assessment/compliance requirements: Patron satisfaction surveys and evaluated in the ICCET process.  
Service: CDS volunte er services  
Ratios: Volunteers will not be included in adult/child ratios.  
Staff training requirements: TBD and specified in local SOP.  
Staff background clearance requirements: Background clearance required according to AR 608  – 10 for regularly scheduled volun-
teers. Occasional volunteers are exempt.  
Staff health requirements: Health requirements according to AR 608 – 10. 
Facility requirements: N/A. 
Location: Service should be co– located with central enrollment registry in area convenient to users. May be placed within a CDS sys-
tem.  
Registration requirements: Volunteers register with IVC and SPS. Complete gratuitous service agreement AR 215 – 1. Patrons com-
plete statement of understanding regarding child care resource and referral service.  
Child health req uirements: N/A. 
Program requirements: N/A. 
Nutrition compliance requirements: N/A. 
Reporting/compliance requirements: SPS director maintains volunteer information for DA FORM 5246 – R; signed copy of gratuitous 
service agreement; compliance with health, tr aining and background checks for regularly scheduled volunteer; number of volunteers 
and hours of volunteer services per program.  
Assessment/compliance requirements: Service evaluated in the ICCET process.  
Service: CDS resource and referral service (R&R)  
Ratios: N/A. 
Staff training requirements: SPS staff/volunteers trained according to local SOP to provide service.  
Staff background clearance requirements: Background clearance required according to AR 608  – 10.  
Staff health requirements: Health requirements according to AR 608 – 10. 
Reporting/compliance requirements: SPS director maintains number of referrals (total and sponsors by rank/rate, children by age); 
number of center –based & FCC on and off –post child care spaces available; number of inquiries for assistance; and record of follow –up 
inquiries.  
Assessment/compliance requirements: Service evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron satisfaction surveys.  
Service: Foster grandparent service  
Ratios: Foster grandparent program participants will not be included in adult/child ratios.  
Staff training requirements: According to requirements for volunteers.  
Staff background clearance requirements: Background clearances according to AR 608  – 10. 
Staff health requirements: TBD and specified in l ocal SOP.  
Facility requirements: N/A. 
Location: Participants may be placed within any CDS system.  
Registration requirements: TBD by local SOP in conjunction with ACS.  
Child health requirements: N/A. 
Program requirements: N/A. 
Nutrition compliance require ments: N/A. 
Reporting/compliance requirements: Additional requirements TBD by local ACS. SPS Director maintains the following: number of 
participants; placement locations; and hours of service.  
Assessment/compliance requirements: Service evaluated in the I CCET process and with patron satisfaction surveys.  
Service: Central enrollment registry  
Ratios: N/A.  

 Table 7 –1 
Supplemental Programs and Services Summary Requirements  — Continued  
Staff training requirements: SPS staff trained according to local SOP to provide service.  
Staff background clearance requirements: Background clearance required according to AR 608  – 10. 
Staff health requirements: SPS staff meets health requirements according to AR 608 – 10. 
Facility requirements: N/A. 
Location: Centralized location in SPS office convenient to users. Co– located with resource and referral service.  
Registration requirements: Maintains copies of all registration documents for Center and FCC enrollees.  
Child health requirements: N/A. 
Program requirements: N/A. 
Nutrition compliance requirements: N/A. 
Reporting/compliance requirements: SPS direc tor maintains the following: DA Form 4719 – R (copy) for all enrollees; DA Form 
5661  – R; computes and provides patron information to program directors for DA Form 5246  – R annually.  
Assessment/compliance requirements: Service evaluated in the ICCET proces s and with patron satisfaction surveys.  
Service: parent education service  
Ratios: N/A. 
Staff training requirements: N/A. 
Staff background clearance requirements: N/A. 
Staff health requirements: N/A. 
Facility requirements: N/A. 
Location: Parent training site TBD locally. Parent library located convenient to users.  
Registration requirements: As required for specific training session.  
Child health requirements: N/A. 
Program requirements: N/A. 
Nutrition compliance requirements: N/A. 
Reporting/compliance requ irements: SPS director maintains the following: annual parent education training plan; sessions offered; 
number of participants per session; annotated summary of each session; and resource list.  
Assessment/compliance requirements: Service evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron satisfaction survey.  
Program: Civilian child care operations  
Ratios: AR 608  – 10 center ratios and group sizes apply.  
Staff training requirements: AR 608 – 10 center staff training requirements apply.  
Staff background clearance requirements: Background clearances for center staff apply according to AR 608 – 10. 
Facility requirements: Facility standards apply according to AR 608 – 10.  
Location: Care provided in centralized facility on Government propert y.  
Registration requirements: AR 608  – 10/center registration applies.  
Child health requirements: Health requirements according to AR 608 – 10. 
Program requirements: AR 608 – 10/center program requirements apply.  
Nutrition compliance requirements: AR 608 – 10 center nutrition requirements apply.  
Reporting/compliance requirements: AR 608 – 10 center reporting/recordkeeping requirements apply.  
Assessment/compliance requirements: SPS Director verifies on post civilian child care operations meet all provisions  of AR 
608 – 10, program evaluated as part of the ICCET process, and with patron satisfaction surveys.  
Program: Short term alternative child care (STACC)  
Ratios: AR 608  – 10 center ratios and group sizes apply.  
Staff training requirements: CDC trained caregivers who have completed basic 38 hours of training.  
Staff background clearance requirements: Background clearances according to AR 608  – 10. 
Facility requirements: Locally determined CDS facility standards do not apply. SPS director and proponent representatives for fire, 
health, and safety determine installation requirements to ensure basic health and safety needs are met according to local SOP . 
Location: Care provided within any facility which meets local SOP requirements and parents remain on site or immediately accessible 
for duration of care.  
Registration requirements: DA Form 4719 – R and current immunization record.  
Child health requirements: Current immunization records.  
Program requirements: Developmentally appropriate activities according to center –based hourly care guidance. SPS resource/toy 
lending library use authorized.  
Nutrition compliance requirements: Infant food/formula provided by parents. Refrigeration must be available. Snacks and meals pro-
vided appropriate for time and length of se ssion. Meals may consist of sack lunches prepared according to USDA guidelines.  
Reporting/compliance requirements: SPS director maintains the following: number of organizations served; location of approved 
sites; number of STACC sessions provided; number o f children served/ages of children served; rank/grade of sponsors served; fees 
collected; annotated summary of sessions offered; and demographic information reported annually on DA Form 5246  – R. 
Assessment/compliance requirements: SPS director verifies ST ACC program operations meet all applicable SOPs. Program evalu-
ated in ICCET process and with patron satisfaction surveys.  
Program: Volunteer child care in unit settings (VCCUS)   

 Table 7 –1 
Supplemental Programs and Services Summary Requirements  — Continued  
Ratios: AR 608  – 10 center ratios and group sizes apply.  
Staff training requirements: N/A. 
Staff background clearance requirements: N/A. 
Staff health requirements: N/A. 
Facility requirements: Locally determined. CDS facility standards do not apply. SPS director and proponent representatives for fire, 
health and safety determine basic requirements according to local SOP.  
Location: Care provided within any facility which meets local SOP requirements and parents remain on site or immediately accessible 
for duration of care.  
Registration requirements: DA Form 4719 – R. 
Registration requirements: TBD in local SOP.  
Program requirements: Developmentally appropriate activities according to local SOP. SPS resource/toy lending library use author-
ized. SPS provides oversight and technical assistance in program implementation.  
Nutrition compliance requirements: Infant food/formula provided by parents. Refrigeration must be available. Snacks and meals ap-
propriate for time and length of session as specified in local SOP.  
Reporting/compliance requirements: SPS director maintains t he following: number of trained volunteers; number of children and 
sponsors served; ages of children served; rank/grade of sponsors; number of VCCUS sessions held; annotated summary of session s 
offered; and demographic information reported annually on DA F orm 5216 – R. 
Assessment/compliance requirements: SPS director verifies VCCUS program operations meet all applicable local SOPs. Program 
evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron satisfaction surveys.  
Program: Contract operations  
Ratios: According to AR 608  – 10 center or FCC ratios and group sizes apply.  
Staff training requirements: According to AR 608 – 10 center –based or FCC requirement.  
Staff background clearance requirements: Background clearances according to AR 608  – 10 center, FCC or SPS program type re-
quirements.  
Staff health requirements: According to AR 608 – 10 CDC or FCC program type requirements.  
Facility requirements: Center –based: center facility standards apply. Quarter –Based: FCC facility standards apply. SPS: as specified 
in AR 608 – 10, chapter 7 for program type.  
Location: N/A. 
Registration requirements: According to AR 608 – 10 center, FCC or SPS program type requirements. SPS program type require-
ments.  
Child health requirements: According to AR 608 – 10. 
Program requirements:  According to AR 608 – 10, center, FCC or SPS program type requirements.  
Nutrition compliance requirements: According to AR 608 – 10 Center, FCC or SPS program type requirements.  
Reporting/recordkeeping requirements: According to AR 608 – 10 Center, FCC or  SPS program type requirements.  
Assessment/compliance requirements: According to AR 608  – 10 Center, FCC or SPS program type requirements.  
Program: Special interest programs  
Ratios: Center ratios and group sizes apply according to AR 608  – 10. 
Staff training requirements: TBD and specified in local SOP. Must be equivalent to comparable programs operated by CDS.  
Staff background clearance requirements: Required according to AR 608  – 10. 
Staff health requirements: N/A. 
Facility requirements: CDS s tandards (as applicable by age group) when facility is used on regularly scheduled basis one or more 
times per week. Facility standards not applicable if parent remains on site or immediately accessible during care.  
Location: Care provided in facilities not operated by CDS e.g. ACS, chaplains. Local determination.  
Registration requirements: TBD and specified in local special interest SOP.  
Child health requirements: According to AR 608 – 10 SPS, CDC or FCC program type.  
Program requirements: Appropriate activities according to local SOP. SPS resource/toy lending library use authorized. SPS provide 
oversight and technical assistance in program planning and delivery. Programming must be equivalent to comparable programs op er-
ated by CDS.  
Nutrition compliance  requirements: TBD and specified in local SOP.  
Reporting/recordkeeping requirements: SPS director maintains the following: number of special interest programs; number of chil-
dren and sponsors served; ages of children served; rank/grade of sponsors served; and annotated summary of program offered.  
Assessment/compliance requirements: SPS director verifies special interest program operations meet all applicable local SOPs and 
provisions of AR 608  – 10. Program evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron sat isfaction surveys.  
Program: SPS homes  
Ratios: State/local requirements or FCC ratios according to AR 608  – 10, whichever is more stringent.  
Staff training requirements: Providers meet FCC training requirements.  
Staff background clearance requirements: Background clearances according to AR 608  – 10. 
Staff health requirements: TBD by state and local regulations.  
Facility requirements: TBD by state/local regulation.   

 Table 7 –1 
Supplemental Programs and Services Summary Requirements  — Continued  
Location: Care provided in off –post private homes.  
Registration requirements: Providers register with SPS. Child registration according to FCC requirements in AR 608 – 10. 
Child health requirements: TBD by state and local regulations.  
Program requirements: Provider meets FCC developmental programming compliance requirements according to AR 608  – 10. 
Nutrition compliance requirements: Provider meets FCC nutrition requirements according to AR 608 – 10. 
Reporting/recordkeeping requirements: SPS maintains information to complete DA Form 5246 – R, section III. Assessment/com-
pliance requirements: SPS director verifies SPS providers meet all applicable provisions of AR 608  – 10 and local requirements per 
MOU with state/county/host nation licensing agency. Program evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron satisfaction surve y. 
Meets state/local lic ensing requirements.  
Program: School –age Services (SAS)  
Ratios: 1:15 
Staff training requirements: According to SAS administrative manual.  
Staff background clearance requirements: According to SAS administrative manual.  
Staff health requirements: According to SAS administrative manual.  
Facility requirements: According to SAS administrative manual.  
Location: Installation determination. Facility must meet minimum facility requirements.  
Registration requirements: According to SAS administrative manual.  
Child health requirements: According to SAS administrative manual.  
Program requirements: According to SAS administrative manual.  
Nutrition compliance requirements: According to SAS administrative manual. Reporting/ recordkeeping requirements: According 
to SAS administrative manual. Assessment/compliance requirements: According to SAS administrative manual.  
Program: Home based parent co –ops 
A Care provided less than 10 child hours per week.  
B Care provided more than 10 child hours per week.  
Ratios: A&B: Family Child Care ratios and group sizes apply.  
Staff training requirements: A. Locally developed training as specified in local co– op SOP. B. FCC training requirements apply.  
Staff background clearance requirements: A & B: Parents providing care must be 18 years or older. Background clearances required 
according to AR 608  – 10. 
Staff health requirements: A. TBD and specified in local co– op SOP. B. FCC provider requirements according to AR 608 – 10 apply.  
Facility requ irements: A. TBD and specified in local co– op SOP. B. FCC facility requirements according to AR 608 – 10 apply.  
Location: A & B: Government owned or leased quarters or privately owned housing on military installations.  
Registration requirements: A & B co –op: CDS and command approval required. A & B child: TBD and specified in local co– op SOP.  
Child health requirements: A. TBD and specified local co– op SOP current immunization record and specification of exclusion criteria 
recommended. B. FCC child health r equirements according to AR 608 – 10 apply.  
Program requirements: A. Co –op members trained to provide developmentally appropriate activities. SPS provides oversight and 
technical assistance in program planning and delivery. B. Co –op members meet FCC provider training requirements according to AR 
608 – 10, SPS provides oversight and technical assistance in program planning and delivery.  
Nutrition compliance requirements: A. TBD and specified in local co– op SOP. B. According to USDA CACFP guidelines for FCC 
homes.  
Reporting/recordkeeping requirements: A & B: SPS director maintains the following: number and types of co– ops; number of co– op 
members; number of children and sponsors served; ages of children served; rank/grade of sponsors served.  
Assessment/compli ance requirements: A & B: SPS director verifies co –op operations meet all applicable local SOPs and provisions 
of AR 608  – 10. Program evaluated in the ICCET process and patron satisfaction survey.  
Program: Facility based co –ops 
A One parent per child on site for duration of co– op session  
B One parent per child not on site for duration of co –op session  
Ratios: A & B: Center –based ratios and group sizes apply.  
Staff training requirements: A & B: Training developed and specified in local co– op SOP.  
Staff background clearance requirements: A & B: Parents providing care must be 18 years or older. Background clearances required 
according to AR 608  – 10. 
Staff health requirements: A & B: TBD and specified in local co– op SOP.  
Facility requirements: A. Par ent remains on site for duration of care. Locally determined CDS facility standards apply. SPS director, 
and proponent representatives for fire, health, and safety determine installation requirements to insure basic health and saf ety needs 
are met accordin g to local SOP. B. Center –based facility standards according to AR 608 – 10 apply.  
Location: Facilities in compliance with A or B requirements.  
Registration requirements: A & B co –op: CDS and command approval required. A Child: TBD and specified in local c o–op SOP. B 
Child: According to AR 608  – 10. 
Child health requirements: A & B: TBD and specified in local co –op SOP. B: According to AR 608  – 10.  

 Table 7 –1 
Supplemental Programs and Services Summary Requirements  — Continued  
Program requirements: A: Co –op member training TBD and specified in local co –op SOP. SPS provides oversight an d technical as-
sistance in program planning and delivery. B: According to AR 608  – 10. 
Food service requirements: A: TBD and specified in local co– op SOP. B: According to AR 608 – 10. 
Reporting/recordkeeping requirements: A: SPS director maintains the following: number of types of co– ops; number of co– op mem-
bers; number of children and sponsors served; age of children served; and rank/grade of sponsors served. B: According to AR 
608 – 10. 
Assessment/compliance requirements: A & B: SPS director verifies operations meet all applicable local SOPs and provisions of AR 
608 – 10. Program evaluated in the ICCET process and with patron satisfaction surveys.  
  

  
Figure 7  –  1.  Sample format for patron statement of understanding regarding child care resource and referral service  
 
 

  
Figure 7  –  2.  Sample format for consent for inclusion on the Child Development Services (CDS) baby -sitter referral list  
 
 

  
Figure 7  –  3.  Sample format for parental consent for inclusion on the Child Development Services (CDS) baby -sitter referral list