
2  –  33.  Installation Child Care Availability Plan (ICCAP)  
Installations are required to develop an ICCAP to target goals for rightsizing th e number of available child care spaces. 
The most current procedural guidance from HQDA on the ICCAP will be followed. The ICCAP will be evaluated during 
the ICCET process and MCCET or ACCET annual inspections. The coordinator will validate and the command er approve 
variances between the plan and actual progress by 1 April each year. To meet requirements of the MCCA, MACOMs will 
submit a summary of the annual ICCAPs to the US Army Community and Family Support Center by 30 June each year.  
a.  CDS care option s to support military members and DOD civilian employees will be determined by local needs and 
such factors as — 
(1)  The number of military and civilian personnel needing child care services. The number of spouses employed full or 
part time outside the hom e; age, rank and status of military and civilian population; mission of the installation; percentage 
of military residing on the installation; and remoteness or isolation of the location, may all impact on the total installation child care need.  
(2)  The need to support readiness and to address military and civilian child care during deployments, mobilization, and 
other missions of the military installation.  
(3)  Problems in recruitment or retention of military and civilian personnel resulting from a lack of child care services.  
(4)  Absenteeism or productivity problems which could be alleviated by reliable child care services.  
(5)  Availability of comparable services at comparable rates in the private sector. The cost, quality, convenience, and 
availabilit y of off –post care influences the need for on –post care.  
b.  Rightsizing will be accomplished by — 
(1)  Improving management of the excess demand, including waiting lists.  
(2)  Increasing the number of child care center spaces used for care for children of employed parents.  
(3)  Moving school –aged child care to other suitable facilities.  
(4)  Expanding the FCC program.  
(5)  Implementing FCC direct subsidies.  
(6)  Expanding SPS options.  
(7)  Using available resources in the civilian community.  
(8)  Continuing  military construction/renovations/additions.  
c.  Excess demand should be addressed through a variety of child care options. Efficient and effective use of all existing 
CDC space, expansion and maintenance of the FCC system, and full implementation of the SPS system to include identi-fication and use of suitable off –post capabilities will be necessary to address excess demand.   

 Chapter 3  
Program Management  
Section I  
Funding  