
3  –  14.  CDS support personnel  
a.  CDS clerical workers.   Administrative personnel will be provided to support the CDS coordinator and each CDC, 
FCC and SPS delivery system. Responsibilities will include — 
(1)  Providing telephonic and on –site information.  
(2)  Typing general correspondence and forms.  
(3)  Performing receptionist duties.  
(4)  Collecting data and maintaining children’s records and program files.  
(5)  Gathering and recording data required for reporting purposes.  
(6)  Communicating with CDS personne l and patrons.  
(7)  Entering and retrieving automated data.  
(8)  Preparing and submitting required reports.  
(9)  Preparing and submitting purchase orders.  
(10)  Maintaining and updating data to support the CDS central enrollment registry.  
(11)  Maintaining  and updating data related to the CDS resource and referral service.  
(12)  Processing, validating, maintaining and updating FCC provider certification records.  
(13)  Maintaining CDS personnel IDP files.  
(14)  Assisting in establishing and maintaining toy/e quipment lending libraries.  
(15)  Coordinating employee annual and sick leave.  
(16)  Maintaining inventory and property books.  
(17)  Collecting and depositing cash receipts, completing the daily activity report (DAR), and maintaining inventory 
and property  books.  
(18)  Preparing and submitting work orders for maintenance and repair.  
b.  Cook.   A cook will be provided in each CDC setting for food preparation, meal services, food production, record-
keeping and cleanup.  
c.  Food service.   Food service workers will be provided as necessary in CDC settings to assist in food preparation, meal 
service, food production recordkeeping, and clean –up. 
d.  Cleaning service.   Custodial workers will be provided in CDC settings where no contracted installation cleaning 
service is available or in addition to the contracted services in cases where needed (e.g., infant and toddler areas with intensive cleaning service requirements).  