

 4  –  2.  Reasons for elimination  
While not all inclusive, when one of the following or similar conditions exist, elimination action may be or will be 
initiated as indicated:  
a.  Substandard performance of duty.  
(1)  A downward trend in overall performance resulting in an unacceptable reco rd of efficiency, or a consistent 
record of mediocre service.  
(2)  Failure to keep pace or to progress with contemporaries, as demonstrated by a low record of efficiency when 
compared with other officers of the same grade and competitive category.  
(3)  Failure to exercise necessary leadership or command expected of an officer of their grade.  
(4)  Failure of an officer to absorb technical proficiency required for grade and competitive category.  
(5)  Failure to properly perform assignments commensurate with a n officer’s grade and experience.  
(6)  Apathy, defective attitudes, or other characteristic disorders to include inability or unwillingness to expend 
effort.  
(7)  Failure to respond to alcohol or drug problem rehabilitation efforts in a reasonable length o f time will result in 
the initiation of elimination action (see AR 600  –  85 for further explanation). Care should be taken to avoid the inclu-
sion of limited use evidence as defined in AR 600  –  85. 
(8)  Failure to conform to prescribed standards of dress, personal appearance, or military deportment.  
(9)  Failure to achieve satisfactory progress after enrollment in the Army weight control program, or failure to 
maintain the weight/body fat standards established under the provisions of AR 600  –  9 after removal  from an estab-
lished weight control program, will result in the initiation of elimination action. This provision does not include those 
judge advocates and AMEDD officers who have incurred a statutory ADSO for participating in Army sponsored 
education and training programs such as the FLEP (see 10 USC 2004), Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship 
Program, or the Uniform Services University of the Health Sciences (see 10 USC Chapters 104 and 105).  
(10)  When no medical problems exist, and an officer has  two consecutive failures of the APFT, elimination action 
will be initiated. This provision does not include those judge advocates and AMEDD officers who have incurred a 
statutory ADSO for participating in Army sponsored education and training programs suc h as the FLEP (see 10 USC 
2004), Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship, or the Uniform Services University of the Health Sciences (see 
10 USC Chapters 104 and 105).  
(11)  Failure of a course at a service school for academic reasons by a probationary or nonprobationary RA officer. 
For failure by an RC officer, see paragraph  2  –  16. 
(12)  Failure of a probationary officer to resign under paragraph  3  –  7 when his or her commander determines the  
best interest of the Government and the individual can be served by the officer’s discharge.  
(13)  The discovery of other conditions concerning a probationary officer that, had they been known at the time of 
appointment, would have precluded the officer’s  appointment.  
(14)  The discovery of any other condition concerning a probationary officer that indicates the officer’s retention 
in the Army would not be in the best interest of the United States.  
(15)  Probationary RA commissioned and warrant officers entering AD who are confirmed human immunodefi-
ciency virus (HIV) positive within 180 calendar days of their original appointment or probationary USAR or ARNG 
commission and warrant officers who report for i nitial entry training in an AD (other than ADT) status and are con-
firmed HIV positive within 180 calendar days of reporting to AD will be processed for elimination.  
(16)  Failure to establish an adequate Family Care Plan in accordance with AR 600  –  20. 
b.  Misconduct, moral or professional dereliction, or in the interests of national security.  
(1)  Discreditable failure to meet personal financial obligations (whether intentional or not).  
(2)  Mismanagement of personal affairs that are unfavorably affecting an officer’s performance of duty.  
(3)  Mismanagement of personal affairs to the discredit of the Army (whether intentional or not).  
(4)  Intentional misrepresentation of facts in obtaining an appointment or in official statements or records.  
(5)  Acts of p ersonal misconduct (including, but not limited to, acts committed while in a drunken or drug intoxi-
cated state).  
(6)  Alcohol and drug- related misconduct as specified in AR 600  –  85. 
(7)  Intentional neglect of or failure to perform duties. This includes failure to self -report criminal convictions to 
the officer’s first -line military supervisor within 15 days of the date the conviction is announced, even if sentence has 
not been imposed or the officer intends to appeal the conviction (see PL 109  –  163).  
(8)  Conduct unbecoming an officer.  
(9)  Conduct or actions that result in the loss of professional status, such as withdrawal, suspension, or abandonment 
of professional license, endorsement, or certification that is directly or indirectly connected with or  is necessary for  

 the performance of one’s military duties. (For AMEDD officers, this includes the partial or complete suspension, 
limitations, withdrawal, or denial of clinical practice privileges.)  
(10)  The final denial or revocation of an officer’s Secret security clearance by appropriate authorities acting pur-
suant to DODI 5200.02 and AR 380  –  67. 
(11)  Elimination action will be initiated against an officer who is medically diagnosed as drug dependent or iden-
tified as having committed an act of person al misconduct involving drugs.  
(12)  Conduct or actions by a warrant officer resulting in a loss of special qualifications (such as withdrawal/revo-
cation of Criminal Investigation Division accreditation, revocation of marine qualification license, removal from the 
Personnel Reliability Program, withdrawal of clinical privileges, or loss of flying status) that directly or indirectly 
precludes a warrant officer from performing in MOS and is necessary for the performance of those duties. Eliminations 
based on these reasons may not be utilized if reclassification action is feasible and in the best interest of the Service 
or if the loss of special qualifications was due to medical reasons beyond the control of the warrant officer.  
(13)  Act of child/spouse maltre atment or abuse and/or other acts of Family violence.  
(14)  Failure of a course at a service school by an RA officer because of misconduct, moral dereliction, or profes-
sional dereliction. For failure by an RC officer, see paragr aph 2  –  16. 
(15)  Conviction by court -martial that did not impose a punitive discharge for a sexually violent offense listed in 
AR 27  –  10. 
c.  Derogatory information. The following reasons require an officer’s record to be reviewed for consideration of  
terminating appointment. Standing alone, one of these conditions may or may not support elimination, however, this 
derogatory information combined with other known deficiencies form a pattern that, when reviewed in conjunction 
with the officer’s overall r ecord, requires elimination.  
(1)  Punishment under UCMJ, Art. 15.  
(2)  Conviction by court -martial.  
(3)  The final denial or revocation of an officer’s Secret security clearance by appropriate authorities acting pursuant 
to DODI 5200.02 and AR 380  –  67. 
(4)  A relief for cause OER issued in accordance with AR 623  –  3. 
(5)  Adverse information filed in the AMHRR in accordance with AR 600  –  37. 
(6)  Failure of a course at a service school.  
(7)  Any substantiated adverse finding or conclusion from an officia lly documented investigation, proceeding, or 
inquiry (except minor traffic infractions).  