
4  –  5. 
c. Discharge in lieu of elimination, if reason for elimination is substandard performanc e of duty (excluding 
probationary officers). Use format shown in figure 4  –  6. 
d. Discharge in lieu of elimination, if reason for elimination is substandard performance and/or misconduct, 
moral or professional dereliction, or in the interest of national se curity (excluding probationary officers). 
Use format shown in figure 4  –  7. 
e. Retirement in lieu of elimination. Use format shown in figure 6  –  2, amended as required. Specifically 
state that the application is submitted in lieu of elimination proceedings . 
2 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 Processes the option. Determines whether medical board or PEB proceedings are pending or appropriate 
(see para 4- 3a). The commander makes recommendation for approval or disapproval and for characteri-
zation of discharge and forwards to the GOSCA with the following documents:  
a. Elimination recommendation memorandum (GOSCA to officer).  
b. Report of investigation (if applicable).   

 Table 4  –  3 
Processing an option that officer elects while elimination action is pending  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
c. Medical examination and mental status evaluation (if applicable).  
d. DA Form 268.  
3 C&S The GOSCA makes recommendation for approval or disapproval and for type of characterization to be 
furnished and immediately forwards the option request, to include all supporting documents to HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), with an information copy to the GCMCA (if different from t he GOSCA) concerned.  
4 C&S The GOSCA advises HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) in writing of the status of the Board of Inquiry proceedings.  
5 PPAA (TC)  On receipt of separation instructions, takes action to separate the officer. Release orders and forms will 
cite th e regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 
  

  
Figure 4  –  1.  Format guidance for Board of Inquiry verbatim report  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  1.  Format guidance for Board of Inquiry verbatim report —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  1.  Format guidance for Board of Inquiry verbatim report —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  1.  Format guidance for Board of Inquiry verbatim report —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  1.  Format guidance for Board of Inquiry verbatim report —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  1.  Format guidance for Board of Inquiry verbatim report —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  1.  Format guidance for Board of Inquiry verbatim report —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  2.  Board of Inquiry data sheet  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  2.  Board of Inquiry data sheet —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  3.  Sample format for initiation of elimination  
 

  
 
Figure 4  –  3.  Sample format for initiation of elimination—continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  3.  Sample format for initiation of elimination—continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  4.  Sample format for resignation in lieu of elimination proceedings (substandard performance)  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  4.  Sample format for resignation in lieu of elimination proceedings (substandard performance) —continued  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  5.  Sample format for resignatio n in lieu of elimination proceedings (substandard performance of duty and/or 
misconduct, moral or professional dereliction, or in the interest of national security)  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  5.  Sample format for resignation in lieu of elimination proceedings (substandard performance of duty and/or 
misconduct, moral or professional dereliction, or in the interest of national security) —continued 
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  6.  Sample format for discharge in lieu of elimination proceedings (for Regular Army officers only —subst andard 
performance)  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  6.  Sample format for discharge in lieu of elimination proceedings (for Regular Army officers only —substandard 
performance) —continued 
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  7.  Sample format for discharge in lieu of elimination proceedings (substa ndard performance of duty and/or 
misconduct, moral, or professional dereliction, or in the interest of national security)  
 
 

  
Figure 4  –  7.  Sample format for discharge in lieu of elimination proceedings (substandard performance of duty and/or 
misconduct, m oral, or professional dereliction, or in the interest of national security) —continued 
Chapter 5  
Miscellaneous Types of Separations  