
2  –  11.  Involuntary release from active duty due to maximum service  
a.  An RC officer, to include warrant officers, will be REFRAD when the of ficer completes 20 years of active 
service. Commissioned officers, other than warrant officers, may request voluntary retirement under 10 USC 7311, 
provided that they have 10 years of active service as a commissioned officer. Warrant officers may request v oluntary 
retirement under 10 USC 1293. Exceptions are as follows:  
(1)  An officer retained by HRC under a voluntary retention program.  
(2)  An officer whose service obligation extends beyond 20 years of active service.  
(3)  An AGR officer, to include an AG R warrant officer, unless selected for release by an AGR REFRAD Board 
authorized by the ASA (M&RA).  
(4)  A U.S. property and fiscal officer and those assigned to the Selective Service System may be retained beyond 
maximum service in grade until the officer  becomes 62 years of age pursuant to 10 USC 12647 (see NGR 130  –  6 and 
NGR 635  –  100, as applicable, for procedures).  
(5)  An officer of the ARNGUS assigned as Chief, NGB.  
(6)  An officer of the USAR assigned as the Chief, Army Reserve, and an officer of the ARNGUS assigned as the 
DARNG, an adjutant general, or the CG of the troops of a State.  
(7)  An officer selected for attendance at the staff college level school or senior service college before completing 
20 years of active service will be retained on AD until completing 2 years of AD following graduation or until termi-
nation of attendance at the designated school, unless the officer is required to separated earlier pursuant to paragraph  
2–11b. 
(8)  An officer selected fo r a command position by the DA Command Selection Board will remain on AD to report 
to the designated assignment. The officer will be retained on AD up to 90 calendar days after completing assignment 
to the designated command position, unless the officer is  required to separate earlier pursuant to 2 -11b. 
b.  Involuntary REFRAD due to maximum service applies to the following:  
(1)  An officer holding a permanent grade of major general in an RC who has not been recommended for promotion 
to lieutenant general, or a brigadier general recommended for promotion, will be released on the fifth anniversary of  

 the officer’s appointment in that grade or 30 days after completion of 35 years of commissioned service, whichever is 
later (see 10 USC 14508). However, at the d iscretion of SECARMY, an RC major general may be retained on AD up 
to and including the last day of the month in which the officer attains age 62 (see para 2–10a(2)). 
(2)  An officer holding a permanent grade of brigadier  general in an RC who has not been recommended for pro-
motion to the grade of major general will be released on the fifth anniversary of the officer’s appointment in that grade, 
or 30 days after completion of 30 years of commissioned service, whichever is l ater (see 10 USC 14508). However, 
at the discretion of SECARMY, an RC brigadier general may be retained on AD up to and including the last day of 
the month in which the officer becomes age 62.  
c.  An officer holding a permanent grade of colonel, or a lieut enant colonel recommended for promotion to colonel, 
in an RC will be REFRAD not later than the last day of the month in which he or she completes 30 years of commis-
sioned service (see 10 USC 14507).  
d.  An RC lieutenant colonel not recommended for promotion to colonel will be REFRAD not later than the last 
day of the month in which the officer completes 28 years of commissioned officer service (10 USC 14507).  
e.  Involuntary REFRAD due to maximum service applies to RC officers — 
(1)  In the grade of major that failed selection for promotion to the grade of lieutenant colonel for the second time 
and will be REFRAD the latter of — 
(a)  The first day of the month after the month in which the officer completes 20 years of commissioned service or;  
(b)  The first d ay of the seventh month after the board that considered the officer for the second time receives final 
approval authority, unless the officer is retained under other provisions of law.  
(2)  In the grade of captain who failed selection for promotion to majo r for the second time and will be REFRAD 
no later than the first day of the seventh month after the board that considered the officer for the second time receives 
final approval authority, unless the officer is retained under other provisions of law.  
(3)  In the grade of first lieutenant who failed selection for promotion to captain for the second time and will be 
REFRAD no later than the first day of the seventh month after the board that considered the officer for the second 
time receives final approval a uthority, unless retained under other provisions of law.  
(4)  In the ARNGUS assigned to a headquarters or headquarters detachment of a State, the Canal Zone, Puerto Rico, 
Virgin Islands, or the District of Columbia as U.S. property and fiscal officer and an officer assigned to the Selective 
Service System and will be REFRAD under the provisions of paragraph  2–11e unless retention is approved pursuant 
to NGR 635  –  100 or NGR 130  –  6. 
(5)  Of the ARNGUS assigned as Chief, NGB and will be REFRAD pursuant to 10 USC 14508 according to the 
officer’s grade.  
(6)  Whose retention is approved on an individual basis by SECARMY and will be REFRAD upon expiration of 
the approved retention period.  
(7)  Who reaches maximum service in grade as indicated in paragraph 2 –11c, 2–11d, or 2–11e and is within 2 years 
of qualifying for nonregular retired pay under AR 135  –  180 and will be retained, if otherwise qualified, until the end 
of the month in which age 62 is reached, or upon attaining 20 years or qualifying service f or nonregular retirement, 
and will be REFRAD on whichever date is earliest (see 10 USC 12731).  
f.  Involuntary REFRAD due to maximum service applies to an officer who twice fails selection for promotion to 
the next higher grade and may be continued on AD i f selected for continuation under the provisions of AR 135  –  155, 
and will be REFRAD at the expiration of the continuation period (see 10 USC 14701 and 14703).  
g.  Involuntary REFRAD due to maximum service applies to an officer, other than a warrant officer, whose reten-
tion in an active Reserve status is authorized beyond the removal date specified in AR 140  –  10 or NGR 635  –  100 but 
does not qualify for retention on AD under the following exceptions and will be released under the applicable criteria 
in par agraphs 2–11b through 2–11e: 
(1)  An Army Nurse Corps or Army Medical Specialist Corps lieutenant colonel or below in an RC may, at the 
discretion of SECARMY, be retained on AD and in an active status until 30 calendar days after the date he or she 
completes 30 years of service (see 10 USC 14706 for computations).  
(2)  An officer, other than a warrant officer, within 2 years of qualifying for retirement prior to attaining maximum 
length of  service will be retained on AD and in an active status until the end of the month after the officer becomes 
eligible for retirement (see 10 USC 7311 or 10 USC 12731).  
(3)  An AMEDD officer (excluding all Medical Service Corps officers except podiatrists and optometrists) or chap-
lain who cannot qualify for retirement under 10 USC 7311 upon completion of service but who can attain retirement 
eligibility by age 60 under 10 USC 12731 may be retained (with their consent) on AD and in an active status until he 
or she qualifies for retirement but cannot be retained later than age 68 (prescribed in paras 2–11b through 2–11e). 
(4)  An officer of the ARNGUS assigned to a headquarters or headquarters detachment of a state, the Canal Zone, 
Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, or the District of Columbia as U.S. property and fiscal officer and an officer assigned to  

 the Selective Service System may be retained on AD and in an active status until further retention is  considered inap-
propriate by HRC or the agency concerned or until age 60, whichever is earlier.  
(5)  An officer of the ARNGUS assigned as Chief, NGB.  
(6)  An officer whose retention is approved on an individual basis by SECARMY.  
h.  The mandatory release o f an RC warrant officer one (WO1) is governed by the disapproval of field promotion 
to chief warrant officer two (CW2). A USAR AGR WO1 will be REFRAD if field promotion to CW2 is disapproved. 
The date scheduled for REFRAD will be not later than 180 days following the date the officer was finally disapproved 
for field promotion as specified in AR 135  –  155. A USAR AGR CW2 or chief warrant officer three (CW3) not rec-
ommended for promotion the second time by a HQDA centralized promotion selection board will be  REFRAD not 
later than the first day of the seventh month following the month SECARMY approves the promotion selection board 
report, unless retained by HRC under a voluntary retention program. A warrant officer qualified for retirement under 
chapter  6 of this regulation may apply for voluntary retirement, effective not later than the scheduled release date.  
i.  Officers to be released will be notified directly by CG, HRC, normally not later than 6 months prior to the 
scheduled release date. In addition, a copy of the notification memorandum will be forwarded to the SAA and the 
officer’s immediate commander for inclusion in the officer’s AMHRR. The AGR officers who will be released from 
AD under paragraph  2  –  10 will be notified by Chief, NGB; OCAR; or the state adjutants general.  
j.  An officer scheduled for release under this paragraph who is not eligible or does not apply for retirement but who 
is hospitalized will have release determination  made according to the medical examination.  
k.  The officer’s separation will not be delayed past the scheduled release date due to nonsubmission or late sub-
mission of a voluntary retirement request.  
l.  The steps required for processing involuntary REFRAD  due to maximum service are shown in table  2  –  7. 
 
Table 2  –  7 
Involuntary release from active duty due to maximum service  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Receives maximum service release notification memorandum from HRC.  
2 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 a. Upon receipt of notification memorandum, determines whether medical board proceedings are pending 
or appropriate under paragraph 1  –  24. Informs the officer that if he or she desires to retire coincident with 
their REFRAD, or earlier, an application for retirement must be submitted. Advises the officer that the sep-
aration will not be delayed due to nonsubmission or late submission of a request for voluntary retirement.  
b. Submits requests for retention based on military necessity to HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for USAR AGR officers 
with justification (amount of advance notice commander had for planning and new effective date re-
quested). Officer will continue separation processing to preclude unnecessary hardship if the retention is 
not approved.  
3 PPAA (TC)  Separates or retires officer on scheduled release date. Final release orders and forms will cite regulatory 
authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 