
6  –  17.  Voluntary retirement application  
a.  Request for voluntary retirement will be considered on an individual basis.  
b.  Request will be prepared according to figure  6  –  2 and forwarded to the appropriate approval authority not earlier 
than 12 months before the retirement date or no later than 9 months before the requested retirement date or beginning 
date of transition leave, whichever is the earliest (see para 6–12a). 
c.  Request may be submitted (with justification) later than 9 months — 
(1)  During an emergency.  
(2)  To preclude a hardship to the officer.  
(3)  When the requested retirement date coincides with the date returned from overseas.  
(4)  When the losing command agrees with the retirement.  
(5)  When an officer accepts by means of a signed statement that a delay in submitting the request shortens the 
processing time and may preclude retirement on the requested date. Without th is statement in the retirement applica-
tion, the application will be returned without action.  
d.  Upon request for a control number, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will verify the retirement eligibility of the officer, 
inform the appropriate Career Management Divisio n within the Officer Personnel Management Directorate, and pro-
vide the control number to the MPD/Personnel Service Center within 7 working days of the request.  
e.  Upon request, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will forward the service fiche for an officer to the inst allation maintaining 
the officer’s MPF within 14 calendar days for use in service computation.  
f.  HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will issue a control number to the appropriate MPD/Personnel Service Branch (PSB) for 
all approved retirements. Retirements disapproved by HQDA will be returned through channels to the officer.  
g.  The request for voluntary retirement must include a sexual assault statement signed by the officer (see para 1  –  35 
and fig 1  –  2). 
h.  As an exception, NGB and state adjutants general will publish rules for processing voluntary retirement appli-
cations for ARNG officers.  
i.  The steps required for processing a voluntary retirement application are shown in table  6  –  2. 
 
Table 6  –  2 
Processing voluntary retirement application  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  a. Submit application (see fig 6  –  2). 
b. For an officer retiring in lieu of mandatory release, includes the following:  
(1) The scheduled mandatory release date.  
(2) The specific reason for release.  
(3) Subject and date of the HRC memorandum notifying the officer of mandatory release date.  
(4) When a retirement application is submitted in lieu of elimination, ensure it states “Submitted in lieu of 
elimination.”  
(5) When a retirement application is submitted in lieu of consideration of a Selective Early Retirement/Se-
lective Retirement Board, ensure it states “Submitted in lieu of Selective E arly Retirement Board (or Selec-
tive Retirement Board).”   

 Table 6  –  2 
Processing voluntary retirement application  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
2 BN S  –  1/Unit  Prepares waiver request, when applicable and forwards application through chain of command to the ap-
propriate approval authority.  
3 SACT  a. Receive application.  
b. Obtain MPF.  
c. Review eligibility.  
d. Schedule appointment.  
e. Request AMHRR from HRC (AHRC  –  MSR) for nonwaiver retirements only (see para 6- 2d). 
f. Advises the officer of their responsibility to obtain medical examination prior to the retirement date and 
that failure t o complete it will not affect or delay the retirement but could affect later claims for service- con-
nected medical problems.  
g. Notify strength management work center of impending retirement.  
h. Request control number from HRC for all retirement application s. Do not forward nonwaiver retirement 
applications to HRC. PSB/MPD should only forward applications to HRC when a waiver is required and/or 
the endorsing commander recommends disapproval. The information in steps 3g(1) and 3g(2) will be pro-
vided when requesting a control number, via the Total Officer Personnel Management Information System 
interactive processing officer retirement screen.  
(1) Separation Request date: in format YYYYMMDD.  
(2) Retirement Request Status Code: Code “I” for initial.  
i. Receive c ontrol number within 7 working days of request (only nonwaiver retirements).  
j. After the AMHRR is received, conduct interview for service computation, if applicable. Prepare DA Form 
7301  –  R, if applicable. Requests verification of active/inactive service time not substantiated in MPF. Upon 
completion of the service computation, forwards application to the appropriate approval authority.  
k. Forwards the application for — 
(1) An ADL commissioned or warrant officer when HQDA is the approval authority, through channels to 
Commander, Human Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort 
Knox, KY 40122  –  5400; Judge Advocate General Corps officers to The Judge Advocate General 
(DAJA  –  PT), 2006 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2200; and chaplains to Office of the Chief of 
Chaplains (DACH  –  PER), 2700 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2700.  
(2) A general officer, through ACOM/ASCC/DRU to General Officer Management Office, Office of the 
Chief of Staff, Army, 200 Army Pentagon, Washi ngton, DC 20310  –  0200.  
(3) RC commissioned and warrant officers not on the ADL to Commander, Human Resources Command 
(AHRC  –  AR), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122  –  5400 (see 10 USC 620).  
(4) For ARNGUS commissioned and warrant officers  not on AD, to the appropriate state adjutant general.  
4 C&S a. Commanders having custody of applicant’s MPF or hospital commanders operating independent trans-
fer activities — 
(1) Verify from available records and documents all information given in the application.  
(2) Ensure that the officer has read paragraph 1  –  24. 
(3) Ensure that prompt action has been taken to adjust and close any public property or financial accounts 
of the applicant.  
b. Intermediate commanders review application to ensure compliance with this chapter and forward with 
written recommendation of approval or disapproval together with statement that action is or is not in con-
travention with AR 600  –  8  –  2. Recommendation for disapproval will state reason.  
5 SACT  a. Receives approval from HQDA.  
b. Prepare retirement order if applicable (see para 6  –  3). The retirement order will contain the control num-
ber. Retirement orders are prepared in accordance with AR 600  –  8  –  105. Distribution of the order will in-
clude the ACOM/ASCC/D RU to which the officer is assigned, the servicing finance and accounting center, 
and HRC (AHRC  –  MSR). Orders formats as prescribed in AR 600  –  8  –  105 for all officer retirements are — 
(1) 680 –  RA. 
(2) 682 –  USAR.  
(3) 684 –  Dual Status.  
(4) 700 –  Amendment of Orders.  
(5) 705 –  Revocation of Orders.  
c. File approved application and allied documents (orders and service computation documents) in MPF 
and return to personnel records work center.  
d. Provides retirement packet to the officer. Retirement packet w ill contain the following:   

 Table 6  –  2 
Processing voluntary retirement application  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
(1) A memorandum of instruction.  
(2) Computation of service.  
Orders with the control number.  
6 TC  c. Receives and processes retirement packet. Final separation forms will cite regulatory authority, and 
SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 