
2  –  15.  Involuntary release from active duty pending appellate review  
a.  A Reserve officer whose sentence as approved by the GCMCA includes a dismissal (commissioned officers) or 
dishonorable discharge (warrant officer who is not commissioned)  without confinement may be placed on excess 
leave in lieu of REFRAD prior to completion of appellate review (see AR 600  –  8  –  10). 
b.  A Reserve officer sentenced to dismissal (commissioned) or dishonorable discharge (warrant officer who is not 
commissioned) may be released from AD prior to appellate review completion and upon completion of confinement.  
c.  When the sentence after final appellate review does not include dismissal or dishonorable discharge, the officer 
will be returned to AD (with  consent) in the same grade, and with the same service commitment as existed upon 
release from AD.  
d.  Transportation in kind will be furnished to the officer. A lump sum payment for unused leave is not authorized. 
Reimbursement for travel of dependents, a nd shipment of household goods will be as authorized by the Joint Travel 
Regulations (JTR). The officer will be advised that, in the event appeal results in a final characterization of the release 
as under honorable conditions, he or she may file a claim w ith the Defense Finance and Accounting Service for ben-
efits withheld on release.  
e.  A DD Form 214 will not be prepared.  
f.  HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will forward a letter of instructions directing the REFRAD in each case to the appropriate 
commander. Appropri ate separation forms will be completed and issued by HRC on final disposition of the case.  
g.  For USAR AGR officers sentenced to confinement, CG, HRC, will notify the HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for appropriate 
orders.  
h.  The steps required for processing involuntar y REFRAD pending appellate review are shown in table  2  –  11. 
 
Table 2  –  11 
Release from active duty pending appellate review  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 C&S The GCMCA notifies HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) or HRC (AHRC  –  AR), as appropriate, immediately when an 
RC officer has been approved for a sentence to dismissal or dishonorable discharge with no confinement. 
When the officer is to be returned to the CONUS, includes the appropriate TC as information addr essee.  
2 C&S The commander of the confinement facility notifies HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) or HRC (AHRC  –  AR), as appro-
priate, not later than 2 weeks prior to completion of an RC officer’s confinement that has been sentenced 
to dismissal or dishonorable discharge and confinement, and whose sentence has not been finally ap-
proved. Notifications are exempt from r eport control under AR 25  –  98 and when appropriate will include 
the following:  
a. Name, grade, DODID, branch, and assignment.  
b. Date and source of general courts -martial order and sentence as approved.  
c. Date of release from confinement.  
d. Date of departure, mode of travel, transportation terminal, and estimated time of arrival (if being re-
turned from OCONUS command).  
3 C&S The GCMCA of the confinement facility returns the officer stationed OCONUS to the appropriate CONUS 
TC to await separation instructions from HRC.  
4 C&S a. The commander of the confinement facility issues reassignment orders directing the officer to report to a 
TC for separation. Includes in the reassignment orders the following statement: “Under the provisions of 
the Uniform Code of Military Justice, Manual for Courts -Martial,” an officer could be retained in the service 
pending final action on the court -martial charges under which he or she stands convicted. The fact that he 
or she is being released from AD will not affect or  be construed to affect, constructively or by impliedly, any 
condonation or pardon of the offense or offenses under which the officer stands convicted, or remission, in 
whole or in part, of the sentence adjudged against him or her. The period of service fr om which he or she 
is being released from AD will be characterized according to the final action on said sentence.   

 Table 2  –  11 
Release from active duty pending appellate review  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
b. Completes DD Form 214WS (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Worksheet)) and 
forwards to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) or HRC (AHRC  –  AR), as appropriate. Includes with the transmittal 
memorandum five copies of the final release order.  
5 C&S The SAA ensures an officer released under this section is not terminated prior to receipt of final instruc-
tions from HRC.  
6 PPAA (TC)  Ensures that action is taken as required by AR 190  –  47 and AR 635  –  8. Separates the officer.  
7 C&S The SAA will advise HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) or HRC (AHRC  –  AR), as appropriate, by electronic means, the 
date the officer is released from AD and the officer’s permanent home address.  