
2  –  8.  Voluntary release from active duty essential to national interest  
a.  An officer may request REFRAD to provide more valuable ser vice (in civilian capacity) to the nation. The 
request must be motivated by national interest and not personal desire (see fig  2  –  1). 
b.  An officer elected or appointed to Congress will be released without application.  
c.  An officer appointed to a federal court or federal or state public office or elected to a public office of a state may 
be released from AD on written request, provided the evidence establishes that the office to which appointed or elected 
requires ful l-time service. Officers commissioned through a funded program (for example, AMEDD, FLEP, USMA, 
ROTC, or special procurement programs), will not be released until completion of that initial Service school obliga-
tion. 
d.  If the application is approved, HRC  (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) (or HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for USAR AGR officers) will 
forward separation instructions to the appropriate MPD.  
e.  If disapproved, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), OCCH (DACH  –  PER); or HRC (AHRC  –  AR), as 
applicable, will return the appl ication to the officer through channels.  
f.  The steps required for processing voluntary REFRAD that is essential to national interest are shown in table  2  –  4. 
 
Table 2  –  4 
Processing voluntary release from active duty that is essential to national interest  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Submits essential to national interest REFRAD request with supporting documents to commander (see fig 
2  –  1). 
2 SACT  
BN S  –  1 Processes the request. Ensure counseling is accomplished as stated in paragraph 1  –  14. The request will 
include—  
a. Name of firm or agency or enterprise with which applicant will be associated, product manufactured or 
services, title and description of position to be filled, and appli cant’s qualifications for the position.  
b. Applicant’s connection with the activity prior to military service.  
c. Documentation from appropriate officials substantiating steps 2a and 2b  of this table outlining the need 
for the services and indicating the latest date position must be filled.  
d. Certification from appropriate civil official when an officer is appointed to a federal court or federal or 
state public office or elected to a public office of a State. Certification will state the office to which the of-
ficer has been elected or appointed and whether such office requires full -time service.  
e. A brief synopsis of the counseling session.  
f. Date officer reported on current tour of AD ; type, effective date, and date of termination of current AD 
commitment.  
g. Whether officer is occupying a key position and a replacement is required.  
h. Whether medical board or PEB proceedings are pending or appropriate.  
i. Whether the officer is currently undergoing a course of instruction that will result in an ADSO upon com-
pletion or termination. Specify course title, beginning and closing dates, and ADSO incurred.  
j. Whether responsible for public property or funds.  
k. Recommendation for approval or disapproval and characterization of service. Also include complete jus-
tification when approval is recommended and the officer has not fulfilled an ADSO and justification for dis-
approval.  
l. Statement that the officer is not under investigation or charges, awaiting result of trial, being considered 
for administrative elimination, AWOL, or under the control of civil authorities.  
m. Date officer departed CONUS or other area of residence for OCONUS assignment. Date of arrival 
OCONUS of dependents, whether at government or personal expense, whether logistical support was fur-
nished and the rotation date, if applicable.  
3 BN S  –  1 Reviews and makes recommendation. Forwards the request through channels, as appropriate, to HRC  

 Table 2  –  4 
Processing voluntary release from active duty that is essential to national interest  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
C&S (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as applicable, or to HRC (AHRC  –  AR) (for 
USAR AGR officers) for final action. The SAA is to forward such a request to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), 
TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as applicable.  
4 SACT (TC)  Receives separation inst ructions and separates the officer. Final release orders and separation forms will 
cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 