
4  –  20.  Option an officer elects while elimination action is pending  
a.  An officer identified for elimination may, at any time during or prior to the final action in the elimination  case, 
elect one of the following options (as appropriate):  
(1)  Submit a resignation in lieu of elimination.  
(2)  Request discharge in lieu of elimination (except probationary officers).   

 (3)  Apply for retirement in lieu of elimination if otherwise eligib le. The officer must have at least 19 years and 6 
months active service toward regular retirement or 19 years and 6 months good reserve years for nonregular retirement 
to apply.  
b.  When an option is elected, the GOSCA may suspend elimination proceedings p ending final action on the option 
elected by the officer. If, prior to final action on an officer’s resignation in lieu of elimination, the officer is retained  
by a Board of Inquiry, Board of Review, or the GOSCA, the officer’s request for resignation becomes void.  
c.  Any officer described in AR 15  –  80 who is being retired that has been the subject of any substantiated adverse 
finding or conclusion from an officially documented investigation, proceeding, or inquiry (except minor traffic infrac-
tions) since  the officer’s last promotion, will have the case forwarded to the Army Grade Determination Review Board 
for a grade determination under AR 15  –  80 to determine the highest grade the officer satisfactorily held while on AD. 
Final retirement grade determina tion is made by DASA (RB) or ASA (M&RA), as appropriate. HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) forwards the following:  
(1)  Retirement application.  
(2)  The elimination notification memorandum (to include all supporting documentation).  
(3)  Officer rebuttal (if any).  
(4)  AMHRR.  
d.  When an officer submits a resignation in lieu of elimination or a request for discharge in lieu of elimination, the 
officer waives the right to a hearing before a Board of Inquiry, and the case will be processed without convening a 
Board of Inqu iry. 
e.  An officer may wish to waive the right to a Board of Inquiry contingent upon receiving a characterization of 
service more favorable than the least favorable characterization authorized for the reason for elimination set forth in 
the notice of elim ination.  
(1)  Officers wishing to submit a conditional waiver will submit a completed Resignation in Lieu of Elimination 
(see fig 4  –  5) or a Request for Discharge in Lieu of Elimination (see fig  4  –  7). 
(a)  The DASA (RB) may approve or disapprove the conditional waiver.  
(b)  If the conditional waiver is disapproved, the case will be referred to a Board of Inquiry unless there is a subse-
quent resignation in lieu of elimination or request for discharge in lieu of elimination, where the officer unconditionally 
waives the right to a hearing before a Board of Inquiry.  
(2)  Commanders will ensure that an officer has had an opportunity to consult with counsel before waiving the right 
to a hearing before a Board of Inquiry.  
f.  Upon final determination, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will forward appropriate separation instructions to the appro-
priate MPD.  
g.  The req uired steps for processing an option that officer elects while elimination action is pending are shown in 
table  4  –  3. 
 
Table 4  –  3 
Processing an option that officer elects while elimination action is pending  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 Soldier  Selects an option.  
a. Resignation in lieu of elimination, if reason for elimination is substandard performance of duty. Use for-
mat shown in figure 4  –  4. 
b. Resignation in lieu of elimination, if reason for elimination is substandard performance and/or miscon-
duct, moral or professional dereliction, or in the interest of national security. Use format shown in figure 