
1  –  5.  Criteria for establishing CDS delivery systems  
a.  The need for CDS for military members and DOD civilian employees shall be determined by local needs and such 
factors as — 
(1)  The number of military and civilian personnel needing child care services.   

 (2)  The need to support readiness and to address military child care during deployments, mobilization, and other mis-
sions of the military installation.  
(3)  Problems in recruitment or retention of military and civilian personnel resulting from a lack of child care services.  
(4)  Absenteeism or productivity problems that could be alleviated by reliable child care services . 
(5)  Availability of comparable services at comparable rates in the private sector.  
b.  Army CDS delivery systems should be established at installations that—  
(1)  Are not tenants or satellites of a host installation.  
(2)  Authorized families to join the ir sponsors.  
(3)  Have a total installation population of 1,000 or more (DA Pam 570  –  551).  
c.  The establishment of a CDS delivery system(s) is strongly recommended and is authorized at installations that may 
not meet one or more of the conditions in a  above if — 
(1)  Off– post child care resources are limited.  
(2)  The complexity of social problems require special programming.  
(3)  Off– post child care is too costly.  
d.  This regulation does not apply to the care given to children—  
(1)  In the home of, or by the parent, guardian, or relatives.  
(2)  By individuals providing short –term intermittent care in their homes when care does not exceed a total of 10 child 
hours per week on a regular basis.  
(3)  By an individual in the child’s home.  
(4)  By DOD schools . 
(5)  In public school programs.  
e.  With exception of required CDS adult/child ratios and background check requirements, this regulation does not apply 
to the care given to children — 
(1)  In chapel settings where care is limited to short periods while pa rents are in attendance at religious services or 
related functions on the premises or immediately accessible to child activity spaces where care is being given.  
(2)  In religious educating programs of limited duration such as vacation Bible school.  