
3
 –  15.  CDS volunteers  
a.  Volunteers in CDS delivery systems are considered persons provid ing gratuitous service in accordance with AR 
215  –  1. 
(1)  Gratuitous services are those services accepted by CDS for which the person donating such services receives no 
present or future salary, wages or related benefits.   

 (2)  The official use of the term  volunteer may only refer to volunteers in ACS, unit family support groups and installa-
tion mayoral programs.  
(3)  CDS volunteers, as providers of gratuitous services, must execute the appropriate written agreement as indicated in 
AR 215  –  1, paragraph  3  –  14. 
b.  CDS volunteers do not come under the coverage of section 1588, title 10, United States Code, which provides for 
volunteers with regard to tort claims and compensation for work related injuries.  
c.  CDS volunteers are not covered under the Army Risk Management Program (RIMP) which provides insurance for 
NAF employees.  
d.  CDS volunteers are not eligible to have their incidental expenses such as child care reimbursed with NAF.  
e.  CDS volunteers may not be used in any c apacity for which others are or can be paid. They will not be counted in the 
ratios nor left alone with children. The Army may not direct or control the activities of CDS volunteers in an employer –
employee sense.  
f.  Examples of authorized duties include — 
(1)  Administrative duties.   Advisory and support group membership; participation in program planning and evaluation; 
development of child activity and staff resource materials when working under the direction of or in partnership with CDS 
employees.  
(2)  Program duties.   Augmenting (but not substituting for) CDS caregiving employees in child activities and CDS 
management personnel for program enrichment purposes when duties are supervised by qualified CDS management per-
sonnel and ratios are met by CDS caregiving employees.  
g.  CDS volunteers may not serve as final program planning or policy setting authority.  
h.  Regularly scheduled CDS volunteers who work in CDS programs must meet CDS employee criteria in paragraph  
3  –  9, staf f health requirements ( para 4  –  25), training requirements as applicable, background screening requirements ( para 
2  –  24), and locally determined health requirements; and must sign the Gratuitou s Service Agreement (AR 215  –  1). The 
CDS coordinator may waive the age requirement for individuals under 18 who are volunteering under the auspices of an installation program or a school or civic organization (e.g. scouts).  
i.  CDS volunteers including pa rents, who are used only on an occasional basis, (e.g., holiday celebrations and field 
trips) are not subject to staff health requirements in paragraph  4
 –  26, the training requirements in paragrap h 3  –  17, or back-
ground screening requirements in paragraph  2  –  24. They will meet CDS employee criteria ( para 3–9e) and sign the gratu-
itous service agreement.  
j.  New CDS volunteers will be assigned to work with experienced CDS personnel. Under no circumstances will CDS 
volunteers have direct unsupervised access to children.  
k.  The SPS director will develop a plan for referral and training of regularly scheduled CDS volunteers within all CDS  
delivery systems.  