
1  –  8.  CDS policy  
a.  CDS is a basic family program.  
b.  Services offered will support mission requirements and Army quality of life standards.  
c.  Installation commanders are authorized to provide full –day, part –day, and hourly services in CDCs, FCC homes, and 
in SPS delivery systems as needed. Services provided should refl ect assessed needs for infant, toddler, preschool –age, and 
school –age care.  
d.  Services will be responsive to needs of patrons living on and off –post.  
e.  All FCC within Government owned or leased quarters or privately owned housing located on an installa tion must 
occur in CDS certified FCC homes.  
f.  Facilities used by center –based programs, designated SPS settings, and family housing units certified for quarters –
based care must meet DOD and Army CDS standards.   

 g.  All CDS program operations will be developmental in nature with appropriate staff, facilities, equipment and mate-
rials, and program experience. Care provided to children will foster and develop a child’s physical, intellectual, social, an d 
emotional capabilities regardless of the setting or  length of time in care.  
h.  All programs offered within CDS will be staffed with professionally qualified child development management per-
sonnel, trained caregiving employees, FCC providers, and other caregiving adults.  
i.  The dissemination of religious information (e. g. grace) or materials is prohibited as well as providing program ac-
tivities that teach or promote religious doctrine. Programs operated by chaplains, and programs conducted in FCC and SPS 
provider homes are exempt from this restriction.  
j.  Services within the CDS delivery systems will be available and affordable to all eligible patrons.  
k.  All program operations within CDS delivery systems will be evaluated annually by an internal review and evaluation 
process.  
l.  Delivery of services wi ll be provided directly through Army operated or regulated programs and/or through public 
agencies and independent contractors. Regardless of the nature of service delivery provided, the CDS coordinator position will be maintained at the installation to mo nitor all services for compliance with pertinent regulations.  