
4  –  32.  Administering medication and Performing Caregiving Health Practices  
On occasion,  Child, Youth, and School (CYS) Services personnel may be required to perform health related practices as 
a reasonable accommodation for children with disabilities (special needs), pursuant to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as 
amended.  These specif ic caregiving health practices are usually outlined in the child’s Medical Action Plan.  Such prac-
tices may include, but are not limited to, administering medications in addition to those discussed in paragraph 4 –32c 
below; using hand held or powered nebul izers; performing clean intermittent catheterization of the bladder and gastrostomy 
tube feedings; or providing assistance with self –care for medical conditions.  In all cases, requests for accommodation 
must be reviewed and assessed individually.  CYS Ser vices programs must provide special needs accommodations unless 
the requested accommodation imposes an undue hardship on the Army, fundamentally alters the CYS Service program in which the accommodation is being made, or poses a direct threat to staff or o ther participants in the program.   Requests 
for accommodation that require CYS Services staff and Family Child Care providers to perform functions that necessitate 
extensive medical knowledge; are considered medical intervention therapy; or if improperly performed, have a high med-
ical risk must be approved by the ACSIM, in consultation with The Army Surgeon General, prior to implementation.  CYS 
Services personnel will adhere to the following guidance in developing operating procedures for performing healt h related 
practices, including the administering of medication to children.
 
    a.  Medications and caregiving health practices will be administered only within full day, part day care, and school –age 
programs enrolling regularly scheduled children and in sick child care settings. Medications and caregiving health practices 
required by special needs children attending hourly programs and part day preschool will be administered on a case –by–
case basis.  
b.  Medication and special therapeutic procedures will b e administered only when prescribed by a physician and only 
when there is no other reasonable alternative to the medical requirement for the child. It is not reasonable to expect parent s 
to leave their work site for this purpose.  
c.  Antibiotics, antihista mines, and decongestants are the only categories of medication which can be routinely admin-
istered by authorized CDS personnel. Other physician prescribed medications may be administered after specific consul-
tation with the health consultant and the provis ion of special training to CDS personnel e.g., side effects, dosage techniques. 
No oral PRN (as needed) medication may be administered, except those designated as basic care items. The installation 
health consultant will determine and approve (with concurr ence of the medical treatment facility physician point of contact) 
specific basic care items which may be used. Only those approved items will be used. Basic care items are limited to topical 
items used for the prevention of sunburn, diaper rash (ointments  and lotions), and teething irritation. Parents of children 
showing any indication of disease (infected sunburn, diaper rash, or gums) will be notified and referred to a health care 
provider for diagnosis and treatment. Use of basic care items will be disc ontinued until health care provider determines 
further use will not be harmful.  
d.  Written permission from a parent or guardian must be obtained before administering medication.  
e.  The physician or parents will administer the first dosage of any medicati on.  

 f.  Children will be on oral medication at least 24 hours before dosage is administered by CDS personnel.  
g.  Medication will be — 
(1)  In the original container with a child –proof cap.  
(2)  Dated with physician’s name and instructions for use.  
(3)  Labeled with the child’s name, name of medication, and dosage strength.  
(4)  Stored according to instructions.  
h.  No “over –the–counter” medications will be administered unless ordered by prescription or are on the list of approved 
basic care items and all  the specifications in paragraph  4–32g are met.  
i.  Designated center –based personnel and all FCC providers are authorized to administer medication within CDS pro-
grams according to the physician’s instructions.  
j.  Individua ls administering medication will have received prior specialized training.  
k.  All medication administered will be recorded on the DA Form 5225  –  R (para 2  –  13). 
(1)  Each medication requires a separate form that may be used  for a one month period. The form will be maintained 
and filed into each child’s folder monthly or upon completion of the medication period.  
(2)  Forms may be reissued as needed for long term medication and should follow the calendar month for recordkeepin g 
purposes.  
(3)  The time of each dosage and the initials of the person administering medication will be entered at the time the 
dosage is administered.  
l.  All medication will be kept in one centrally located and monitored locked cabinet, out of the reach  of children.  
m.  Medication requiring refrigeration will be isolated within the refrigerator in a separate secured container.  
n.  Medication will be returned to parents when no longer needed or upon termination of child’s attendance in the CDS 
program.  
o.  Staff and providers will receive specialized training as identified by the SNRT prior to placement of a special needs 
child in a child care setting. Training will be conducted according to paragraph  2–3c (6). 