
4  –  18.  Elimination of a nonprobationary officer  
a.  Elimination action may be initiated by — 
(1)  CG, HRC. Notification will normally be made through the officer’s chain of command, alth ough certified mail 
may be used when circumstances warrant.  
(2)  A GOSCA, for an officer assigned or attached to command (see glossary ) (unless specifically withheld by 
HQDA).   

 (3)  The DCS, G  –  1, including when recommendations are made by HQDA promotion, school, and command boards 
and career field designation boards that an officer should be required to show cause for retention on AD. The DCS, 
G  –  1 or their designated representative in the grade of major general  or above will review such names and decide if 
initiation of elimination is appropriate when a board recommends an officer show cause for retention. If initiation of 
elimination is appropriate, the action will be processed according to the rules and steps of the applicable sections of 
this chapter.  
(4)  SECARMY, the Chief of Staff, and such officials in their offices as are designated by them. The action will be 
processed according to the rules and steps of the applicable sections of this chapter.  
b.  Elimi nation action will be initiated against an officer who is identified by one or more of the reasons outlined in 
paragraph  4  –  2. 
c.  Any subordinate commander may recommend to the GOSCA the initiation of elimination proceedings  for an 
officer in command.  
d.  A commander has the discretion to initiate disciplinary action under the UCMJ or to recommend or initiate 
elimination proceedings under the provisions of this regulation.  
(1)  The fact that elimination proceedings were initi ated when disciplinary action could have been taken will not 
affect the validity of the elimination proceedings.  
(2)  Elimination action will not be used in lieu of disciplinary action solely to spare an officer who may have com-
mitted serious misconduct fr om the harsher penalties that may be imposed under the UCMJ.  
(3)  Conduct that was the subject of judicial or nonjudicial punishment may be the basis for elimination proceedings 
under this regulation (see para 4–4b). 
e.  Rega rdless of who initiates the elimination action, the initiating official will furnish the appropriate ACOM/ 
ASCC/DRU a copy of the notification memorandum. The GOSCA will ascertain the identity and location of govern-
ment witnesses and make reasonable effort s to ensure their availability to appear before a Board of Inquiry.  
f.  On receipt of elimination actions from the GOSCA, CG, HRC may take the following actions prior to sending 
the case to ARBA:  
(1)  Close the case (prior coordination with the initiating official) required for an elimination initiated under para-
graph 4–18a(3) or 4–18a(4), and, through channels, notify the officer.  
(2)  Forward the case to ARBA.  
g.  When the Board of Review recommends elimination, the board will forward the case directly to SECARMY or 
designee for the final decision.  
h.  When the Board of Review recommends retention (with or without reassignment), HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will 
close the case and, through channels, notify the officer.  
i.  When SECARMY or designee approves elimination, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will forward separation instruc-
tions to the appropriate MPD.  
j.  The required steps for processing an el imination of a nonprobationary officer are shown in table  4  –  1. 
 
Table 4  –  1 
Processing elimination of a nonprobationary officer  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official  (see paras 4 -18a(1) through 4 -18a(4)) notifies the officer, in writing, that elimination 
action has been initiated and that he or she is required to show cause for retention on AD (see fig 4  –  3). 
Initiates a DA Form 268 (see AR 600  –  8  –  2). 
2 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official advises the officer of the reasons supporting the elimination action and the factual 
allegations supporting the reasons. Only applicable reasons as outlined in paragraph 4  –  2 that can be 
supported by specific factual alleg ations and evidence may be the basis for elimination. Evidence to sup-
port the elimination must be able to stand on its own merits. Prior coordination with the servicing judge 
advocate or legal advisor is required for actions initiated by the GOSCA. Advises  the officer that he or 
she may — 
a. Tender resignation in lieu of elimination (see para 4  –  20). 
b. Request discharge in lieu of elimination (see para 4  –  20). 
c. Apply for retirement in lieu of elimination if otherwise eligible for voluntary retirement as  stated in para-
graph 6- 16c. Voluntary retirement application will be amended to specifically state that the application is 
submitted in lieu of elimination. If the officer’s AMHRR contains derogatory information or evidence of 
misconduct in his or her curr ent grade, the basis for elimination involves derogatory information or any 
reason under paragraph 4- 2b or 4- 2c, the notification letter will also notify the officer that the voluntary 
retirement if approved, will be forwarded to DASA (RB) for a determinat ion in accordance with AR 15  –  80  

 Table 4  –  1 
Processing elimination of a nonprobationary officer  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
as to the highest grade satisfactorily served for purposes of retired pay. Any matters the officer wants 
considered on this issue of the grade determination must be submitted with the request for retirement in 
lieu of elim ination.  
d. Appear before a Board of Inquiry to show cause for retention.  
3 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official advises the officer that he or she has 30 calendar days to acknowledge receipt in 
writing, to prepare a written statement or rebuttal and/or elect one of the options as stated in steps 2a 
through 2d  of this table . 
4 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official advises the officer of the least favorable discharge that he or she may receive. An 
officer separated solely for substandard performance will receive an honorable discharge (see para 4-
2a). If separated for reason(s) under paragraph 4- 2b or 4- 2c, an officer may receive an under other than 
honorable discharge.  
5 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official advises the officer that he or she may consult with the local finance and accounting 
officer concerning possible entitlement to separation pay.  
6 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The initiating official advises the officer that if he or she requests resignation or discharge in lieu of elimi-
nation action and it is approved, he or she will be separated — 
a. Not later than 30 calendar days after receipt of notification that request for resignation or discharge 
was approved (only when separated solely for substandard performance). Release wi ll not be prior to the 
30th day without the officer’s consent.  
b. Not later than 14 calendar days and no earlier than 5 calendar days after receipt of notification that the 
request for resignation or discharge was approved when stationed in CONUS.  
c. For o fficers assigned OCONUS, they will be returned to the CONUS separation TC no later than 21 
calendar days after receipt of written notification that the request for resignation or discharge was ap-
proved, and separated no later than 5 calendar days after arr ival at the CONUS TC.  
7 C&S The initiating official personally signs the memorandum.  
8 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The GOSCA furnishes a copy of the notification memorandum directly to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). 
9 Soldier  Officer responds with acknowledgment of receipt (see fig 2  –  4). Submits a written statement or rebuttal or 
elects one of the options in step 2 of this table within 30 calendar days.  
a. The statement or rebuttal may be prepared with the assistance of an officer of the JAGC or civilian 
counsel obtained by the officer at no expense to the Government.  
b. The statement or rebuttal should contain any pertinent facts bearing on the question of the officer’s 
elimination. Documents submitted must be legible and reproducible. They may be sworn or unsworn.  
c. The officer submits the appropriate application for separation if in lieu of elimination option is selected.  
d. The officer undergoes a separation physical examination within 5 duty days from the date the option is 
chosen.  
10 C&S The initiating official (CG, HRC or GOSCA, as appropriate), on receipt of the officer’s statement or rebut-
tal and/or option selection, will act as follows:  
a. Closes the case. Prior to closing cases initiated under paragraph 4- 18a(3) or 4 -18a(4), the CG, HRC 
will coordin ate with the initiating official. The GOSCA may only close a case that he or she initiated.  
b. Expeditiously forwards the appropriate application and all elimination papers directly to HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), if the officer elects one of the options in step 2 a through 2c  of this table. When the 
GOSCA is not the GCMCA, furnishes a copy to the GCMCA. The forwarding endorsement includes the 
direct POC for the elimination action to include name and telephone number.  
c. If closing the case is not warranted and the officer declines to elect an option, refer the case to a Board 
of Inquiry. The GOSCA is authorized to appoint a field Board of Inquiry without referral to HRC. The 
GOSCA notifies HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), by electronic message that a Board of Inquiry is being appointed 
and requests that two copies of the officer’s AMHRR and ORB be provided.  
d. Determines whether medical board or PEB proceedings are pending or appropriate if the case is not 
closed (see para 4 -3a). 
11 C&S The GOSCA, prior to forwarding the case  to the Board of Inquiry, ensures that — 
a. All evidence considered by the board is included, and that the report of investigation is complete.   

 Table 4  –  1 
Processing elimination of a nonprobationary officer  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
b. Documents are legible and reproducible.  
c. The statement submitted by the officer is made a part of the record . 
12 C&S The GOSCA forwards the case to the Board of Inquiry. The Board of Inquiry will be completed no later 
than 90 calendar days from the date that the GOSCA directs that a Board of Inquiry be conducted.  
13 C&S The GOSCA forwards the Board of Inquiry proceedings to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) no later than 30 calen-
dar days after the board’s adjournment. This time limit must be met.  
14 C&S The GOSCA, when a Board of Inquiry recommends retention, closes the case, notifies the officer in writ-
ing, and notifies H RC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) that the officer has been retained by the Board of Inquiry and of 
the date of the officer’s notification. Forwards the board’s proceedings (original copy only, either verbatim 
or summarized transcript) with a copy of the officer’s notif ication memorandum to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). 
The officer may not be considered for elimination again for the same reason(s) unless authorized by par-
agraph 4- 4c or 4-4d. 
15 C&S The GOSCA, when a Board of Inquiry recommends elimination, closes the case if retention is appropri-
ate (only for eliminations initiated by a GOSCA for an officer assigned or attached to command (unless 
specifically withheld by HQDA)) and complies with step 14 of this table.  
16 C&S The GOSCA, when the Board of Inquiry recommends eli mination or it was initiated under paragraph 4 -
18a(1), 4 -18a(3), or 4- 18a(4), completes the following administrative actions:  
a. Furnishes the officer a copy of the Board of Inquiry report and obtains a receipt of acknowledgment.  
b. Gives the officer the options listed in step 2a through 2 c of this table.  
c. Advises the officer that — 
(1) He or she may submit an appellate brief and statement within 7 calendar days after receipt of the 
Board of Inquiry report or proceedings.  
(2) The entire case will be considered by Board of Review if the Notification of Elimination was signed by 
the GOSCA and served on the officer before ; in such instances the officer will be en-
titled to a copy of the Board of Review report.  
(3) If the Board of Review,  if required, determines that the officer should not be retained, the case will be 
referred to SECARMY or designee for final action. If the Board of Review determines the officer should 
be retained, the case will be closed. In either event, the officer wil l be notified at the earliest and practica-
ble time by CG, HRC.  
d. Has the officer undergo a separation physical examination. Establishes internal suspense controls to 
ensure expeditious processing of the separation physical examination.  
17 C&S The GOSCA, when a Board of Inquiry recommends elimination (after completing the administrative ac-
tion required in step 16 of this table), forwards by personal endorsement the original report of the Board 
of Inquiry proceedings to the CG, HRC including—  
a. Recommendat ion of approval or disapproval of the Board of Inquiry’s recommendation (state reason(s) 
when disapproval is recommended). The GOSCA may recommend retention when elimination is recom-
mended by the board.  
b. A statement that the officer was furnished a copy of the Board of Inquiry report.  
c. A recommendation of the type of discharge to be issued. (Only applicable where the officer was re-
quired to show cause for retention for reasons indicated in paragraph 4- 2b or 4- 2c and provided the of-
ficer is not eligible for retirement under chapter 6 of this regulation.) The recommendation of the type of 
discharge may be more favorable but may not be less favorable than that recommended by the board.  
d. The officer’s appellate brief (if submitted). The GOSCA must include a statement in the forwarding 
memorandum that the brief was reviewed and may submit any other appropriate comments concerning 
the brief. Derogatory information that has not been previously provided to the respondent will not be 
added to the forwarding memorandum. If the GOSCA believes it necessary to include in their endorse-
ment derogatory information that was not previously made part of the action, the respondent will be 
served with a copy of the derogatory information and will be provided with a reasonabl e opportunity to 
rebut the information.  
All rebuttals and resignations or requests for discharge in lieu of elimination will have the GOSCA’s per-
sonal endorsement.  
18 PPAA (TC)  On receipt of separation instructions, takes action to separate the officer. Final release orders and forms 
cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1.  