
3  –  23.  CDS parent advisory/support groups  
a.  CDS parent advisory boards which include parents who are using the program on a  regularly basis will be organized 
to provide consumer input and patronage support for each CDS program.  
b.  These groups will include a majority of parental membership including sole and dual military parent representation, 
and may include representatives  of installation support and regulatory agencies (e.g., center/program director, FAPM in-
stallation commander or MTF designee, ACS, wives’ clubs, installation morale, welfare and recreation).  
c.  CDS parent advisory boards will include parental representati on which reflects the mix of program services and 
program types offered on the installation. Parent(s) will be elected chairperson(s).  
d.  Meetings will be open to all community residents.  
e.  Groups shall serve only in an advisory capacity. The board chairperson shall forward recommendations for improving 
services through the program director to the installation commander for review and disposition.  
f.  Parent advisory boards are not advisory committees and are not required to comply with the Federal A dvisory Com-
mittee Act under Section 805 of the Military Family Act of 1985.   

 g.  A parent participation program which is a planned group of activities and projects will be established developed, and 
overseen by the parent advisory board with the advice of t he program staff.  
(1)  The parent participation program will encourage parents to volunteer in child development programs, including 
special events and activities (e.g., field trips, holiday events, and special curriculum projects), small group activities,  special 
projects (e.g., playground improvement, procurement of equipment, and administrative aid), parent education programs 
and training workshops to include child abuse prevention education for parents.  
(2)  The commander may reduce fees for parents who  participate. The most current HQDA guidance will be followed.  