

 5  –  13.  Voluntary release from active duty of an obligated  officer to attend school  
a.  An officer who is serving on AD or AGR and who is not mission essential, may request REFRAD to attend a 
recognized institution of higher education. An officer who is commissioned through a funded program or a training 
recipien t (for example, AMEDD, FLEP, USMA, ROTC, or special procurement programs) will not be released until 
completion of that initial Service school obligation. Recognized institutions are those listed (or determined eligible 
for such listing) in the Database of  Accredited Postsecondary Institutions and Programs on the Department of Educa-
tion website https://ope.ed.gov/dapip/ . The course of instruction that the officer has requested enrollment in must lead 
to a masters or  higher degree.  
b.  The CG, HRC is the approval authority for RA and USAR AGR officers, with the exception of officers indicated 
below. In the case of an AMEDD officer, the request will be coordinated with The Surgeon General for recommen-
dation prior to final approval or disapproval.  
(1)  JAGC officers.  
(2)  Chaplains.  
c.  If the application is approved, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) (or HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for USAR AGR officers) will 
forward the separation instructions to the appropriate MPD.  
d.  If the application i s disapproved, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A), TJAG (DAJA  –  PT), or OCCH (DACH  –  PER), as ap-
plicable (or HRC (AHRC  –  AR) for USAR AGR officers), will return the application to the officer through channels.  
e.  Early release of a Medical or Dental Corps officer to accept residency training or fellowship positions leading 
to a specialty board eligibility and/or internship is not authorized under this regulation unless the officer is enrolled in 
a degree program. If the officer is enrolled in a degree program, he or she may request release, with appropriate 
evidence of enrollment from the educational institution. An officer should not seek a residency position with a report-
ing date prior to expiration of an AD tour.  
f.  The officer’s school reporting date must be in the last 3 months of the officer’s remaining active service. Nor-
mally, the effective date of early release will not be earlier than 10 calendar days before the class starting date. Accrued 
leave will not be added to extend this period. As an exception, an offi cer may be separated up to 30 calendar days 
before the class start date. Exceptions of this nature are authorized in the case of an officer who is returning from 
OCONUS and moving Family to the location of the educational institution or when because of the  school’s latest 
registration date (relating to class start date), later REFRAD of the officer would cause undue hardship. When late 
registration is permitted by the school, an officer who is otherwise ineligible for separation under this task may be 
separ ated on the first day of the last 3 months of AD service.  
g.  The steps required for processing voluntary REFRAD of an obligated officer to attend school are shown in table  