
4  –  11.  Transportation  
a.  CDS employees and CDS volunteers will not use private vehicles to transport children for CDS sponsored activities 
on a routine or scheduled basis except in a case of emergency. Government vehicles, either NAF or APF, will be used to 
ensure insurance coverage through the United States Army Nonappropriated Fund Risk Management Program (RIMP) or 
coverage under the Federal Torts Claims Act. Busing of children enrolled in CDS is authorized in accordance with AR 58
 –  1, paragraph  5  –  5. 
b.  FCC providers will not transport children in a private vehicle unless such transportation is specifically authorized in 
writing by the child’s parent or guardian (see fig 6  –  4). 
(1)  Such transportation is at the risk of FCC provider and parent/guardian concerned and is specifically not covered by 
RIMP insurance.  
(2)  Parents and guardians will be responsible for determining on their  own, the amount and extent of an FCC provider’s 
automobile insurance policy coverage and whether or not that policy specifically covers a death or injury occurring to a child being transported by the FCC provider during the course of conducting a child ca re business.  
(3)  An optional parental permission/waiver statement regarding transportation of children by the FCC provider is con-
tained in figure  6
 –  4. 
c.  Written permission on DA Form 5222  –  R regarding transportatio n of children by CDS personnel must be obtained 
from the parent or legal guardian at the time of program enrollment and annually thereafter.  
d.  When transporting children, the same adult/child ratio will apply as is required in the FCC home or CDC for the  ages 
and number of children being served. Drivers of automobiles may be counted in the adult/child ratios.  
e.  The driver and vehicle must comply with all State and local laws and installation regulations pertaining to vehicles.  
f.  Each child will board or leave the vehicle from the curb side of the street.  
g.  Individuals using private vehicles on a non– routine basis while transporting children must carry vehicle liability 
insurance.  
h.  Evidence of compliance regarding vehicle liability and medical insurance will be required when a private vehicle is 
used.  
i.  No child will be left unattended in a vehicle.  