
2  –  16.  Involuntary release from active duty and termination of Reserve appointments of student 
officers and warrant officers attending branch orientation, familiarization courses, or Warrant 
Officer Basic Course  
a.  An RC commissioned officer with less than 6 years commissioned service or an RC warrant will be released 
from AD and discharged from their USAR commission when the officer fails to meet the standards of service schools 
due to — 
(1)  Misconduct.  
(2)  Moral or p rofessional dereliction.  
(3)  Academic or leadership deficiencies.  
(4)  Resigning from a course.  
b.  An officer attending any basic course while detailed from branch for strength accounting only and who is at-
tending a course of instruction at a different b ranch school as part of basic course is included in this paragraph.  
c.  Effective , WO1’s, who are appointed contingent upon successful completion of Warrant Officer 
Basic Course (WOBC), will be REFRAD or discharged if — 
(1)  Eliminated from W OBC due to resignation from the course or for failure to meet the conduct, moral, physical, 
professional, academic, or leadership standards.  
(2)  Failure of RC WO1 to successfully complete WOBC within 2 years of appointment (3 years with HQDA 
(DAPE  –  MPO) or Chief, NGB (ARNG  –  HCM) waiver).  
d.  For officer or warrant officers attending a service school who are resigning from the course, HRC 
(AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) is the final authority to approve or disapprove the REFRAD or discharge. The GCMCA for that 
officer will forward a recommendation to CG, HRC. Officers and warrant officers who resign from a course or vol-
untarily terminate attendance will normally be required to complete the period of service required by law and regula-
tion incident to their appointment as  officers or warrant officers. For all other cases, the GCMCA for an officer at-
tending a service school (TJAG for an officer attending The Judge Advocate General’s Legal Center and School) has 
final authority to approve or disapprove the officer’s REFRAD ( ARNGUS and USAR officers) or discharge (USAR 
officers only) under this paragraph. This authority will not be further delegated.  
e.  The term school commandants includes commanders of U.S. Army MTFs when a branch or specialty qualifying 
course is conducted in such a facility.  
f.  The CG, HRC will direct the discharge of an officer of the USAR who has been released from ADT under a self -
terminating order. The school commandant will forward all documents and reports pertaining to a USAR officer to 
Commander, H uman Resources Command (AHRC  –  OPL  –  P), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 
40122  –  5400.  
g.  The school commandant will forward all documents and reports pertaining to an ARNGUS officer to HQDA 
(ARNG  –  HCM), Chief, National Guard Bureau, 2500 A rmy Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2500, under NGR 
635  –  100, who has responsibility for withdrawal of federal recognition of all ARNGUS officers.  
h.  The steps required for processing involuntary REFRAD and termination of Reserve appointments of student 
officers and warrant officers attending branch orientation, familiarization courses, or WOBC are shown in table  2  –  12. 
  

  
Table 2  –  12 
Involuntary release from active duty and termination of Reserve appointments of student officers and warrant officers 
attending branch, familiarization courses, or Warrant Officers Basic Course  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S a. The school commandant at the start of each course advises each student that may be affected by this 
section of the rules and procedures herein.  
b. When a student fails to meet the standards of the school, recommends that student be released from 
AD and refers case to the school faculty board. The student may waive consideration of pending separa-
tion by a faculty board and accept the decision of the approval authority in respect to their release/dis-
charge.  
2 Soldier  If the  student desires a faculty board, he or she may present to the board any circumstances the student 
considers extenuating.  
3 C&S If the student desires a faculty board, the school faculty board then considers the student’s case and in-
cludes in its findings  all circumstances surrounding the failure and leadership potential of the student.  
4 C&S The school commandant forwards recommendations with the faculty board proceedings (unless the stu-
dent waives consideration by the board) to the officer exercising GCM jurisdiction over the school. The 
Commandant, The Judge Advocate General’s Legal Center and School, forwards proceedings to The 
Judge Advocate General (DAJA  –  PT), 2200 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  2200.  
5 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 
C&S The GCMCA/TJAG wil l, if the student desires a board, then approve or disapprove the faculty board’s 
findings and recommendations.  
a. Return the proceedings to the school commandant when the REFRAD or discharge (or other action 
within the authority of the school commandant) is directed.  
b. Forward the proceedings to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) when retention with branch transfer is approved.  
c. When the final approved action must be considered or executed by HRC, forward the proceedings to 
HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A). 
d. Determine whether medical board or PEB proceedings are pending or appropriate per paragraph 1  –  24. 
6 C&S The school commandant authorizes a student serving on ADT to return in time to arrive at their home sta-
tion by the termination date of self -terminating order, when he or she has not received the final decision of 
the case.  
7 SACT (TC)  a. Separates a stude nt whose REFRAD (USAR and ARNGUS) or discharge (USAR only) is directed by 
the GCM authority or TJAG. As an exception, when a student of the USAR on ADT who has returned 
home under self -terminating orders and any student of the ARNGUS on full -time training duty, then para-
graph 2- 16e or 2-16f applies. Unless one of exceptions apply, final release orders and forms will cite regu-
latory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 
b. Forwards to HRC (AHRC  –  PAT  –  R), for USAR students, or to Chief, NGB (ARNG  –  HCM ), as appropri-
ate, one copy of the release order, a report of the student’s academic performance, a copy of the faculty 
board proceedings (if applicable), and the action directed by the GCMCA or TJAG. For an ROTC gradu-
ate, includes the name of the school.  