
7
 –  24.  Operational guidance  
a.  The installation commander will determine overall responsibility for the operation of the SAS program by designat-
ing CDS or YS as the installation program proponent.  
b.  The operational guidance in the program and activity manuals for SAS models will be followed.  
c.  Regardless of proponency— 
(1)  CDS and YS will implement SAS models cooperatively and collaboratively to avoid duplication of effort and to 
ensure maximum program integration at all levels.  
(2)  The commander will approve the implementation of SAS models as recommended by the SPS director and YS 
manager to meet the assessed needs of the community.  
(3)  Comparable fees will be charged in all SAS models whether operated by CDS or YS.  
(4)  Child /staff ratios will not exceed 15 children to one adult. Group size will not exceed 30 children. Group sizes may 
be increased for special events e.g., field trips, theatrical performances, but child/staff ratios will be maintained.   

 d.  All SAS program sites  must have a dedicated class A telephone line with the capability of receiving incoming calls 
and making outgoing calls.  
e.  School –Age coordinator’s will not dual function as a program director or manager for other CDS or YS programs 
which have overlappin g time period of primary program operations.  
f.  Training for School –Age coordinator will be the responsibility of the coordinators’ supervisor. Training for school –
age personnel working directly with children will be the responsibility of the School– Age c oordinator.  
g.  When CDS is the School –Age proponent, responsibilities will include:  
(1)  Recommending initiation and consolidation of SAS models through the CDS coordinator to the installation com-
mander.  
(2)  Ensuring coordination with YS on program opera tions.  
(3)  Monitoring all SAS resources to ensure each SAS program model is adequately funded.  
(4)  Preparing and forwarding all required MACOM and HQDA reports for the SAS program.  
(5)  Ensuring coordination between the SAS programs and all other communi ty programs appropriate for school –age 
children.  
(6)  Monitoring and supporting all SAS program operations.  
(7)  Ensuring compliance with all HQDA and MACOM directives on the SAS program.  
(8)  Including information about the SAS program in the CDS resource  and referral service.  
h.  When CDS is not the SAS proponent, the CDS staff will support the SAS operations. Responsibilities will include — 
(1)  Ensuring program coordination with YS for all SAS operations.  
(2)  Monitoring and supporting all CDS specific S AS program operations to ensure compliance with MACOM and 
HQDA directives on SAS programs.  
(3)  Supporting and or providing training for SAS program specialists as required.  
(4)  Ensuring all CDS SAS specific records required for completion of MACOM and HQDA reports are forwarded to 
the YS director or designee.  
(5)  Including information about the SAS program in the CDS resource and referral service.  
Section VII  
Optional SPS Programs Compliance Requirements  