
5  –  6.  Separation of commissioned officers and chief warrant officers who are twice nonselected 
for active duty list promotion by a Headquarters, Department of the Army centralized board  
a.  Commissioned officers and chief warrant officers on the AD list twice nonselected for promotion to the grade 
of captain, major, lieutenant colonel, CW3, or chief warrant officer four (CW4) will be involuntarily released or dis-
charged unless they are—  
(1)  Selectively continued (see AR 600  –  8  –  29). 
(2)  Within 2 years of retirement (completes 18 or more years AFS on their scheduled release date).  
(3)  Retired.   

 (4)  A health professions officer in the grade of captain (O  –  3) or major (O  –  4). These officers will be retained on 
AD until completion of ADSO prior to discharge, unless sooner retired or discharged under another provision of law 
(see 10 USC 632).  
b.  HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will forward the notification  memorandum (that states the officer’s options) and, if 
applicable, an “acknowledgment of notification of nonselection” for ADL promotion to the officer and the major 
command.  
c.  Commissioned officers and chief warrant officers (except as stated in paras 5 –6d and 5–6e) will be separated on 
the 1st day of the 7th calendar month after approval of the promotion board’s report unless earlier release is voluntarily 
requested or retention on AD in a R eserve status is approved by SECARMY or designee.  
d.  An officer may request an earlier separation date or submit a resignation, for example, to accept an appointment 
as a warrant officer or for continuing on AD in an enlisted status (see AR 601  –  280) (wh ichever applies and if eligible).  
e.  Officers or warrant officers who are within 2 years of qualifying for retirement under chapter  6 of this regulation 
(20 years AFS) on scheduled release date and who can so qualify pri or to attaining the maximum age will be retained 
on AD until the last day of the month following the month they qualify for retirement. Maximum ages are specified 
in paragraph  2–10a (RC, age 60 or for warrant officer, age 62 ) or paragraph  6–21a (RA, age 62).  
f.  An officer or warrant officer eligible for retirement under chapter  6 may apply for retirement to be effective not 
later than the first day of the seventh month beginning after the month in which the President or SECARMY (as 
applicable) approves the report of the board that considered the officer or warrant officer the seco nd time.  
g.  If otherwise eligible, an officer may submit a resignation to continue a military career in an enlisted status, or a 
commissioned officer may submit a resignation to be appointed as a USAR warrant officer. The resignation date will 
be not late r than the mandatory discharge or release date. For a warrant officer (with only warrant officer status), the 
resignation will not be later than the mandatory discharge or release date.  
h.  When an officer’s case is referred to a HQDA Special Selection Board for promotion reconsideration (AR 
600  –  8  –  29), the officer will continue to be processed for separation as scheduled. However, when reconsideration is 
not completed by the scheduled separation date, HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) will temporarily suspend the se paration date, 
pending completion. When the board’s decision is unfavorable, the officer will be separated not later than 30 calendar 
days after their receipt of notification.  
i.  An officer’s discharge under this paragraph will be under honorable conditio ns and a DD Form 256 will be 
issued.  
j.  The steps required for processing separation of commissioned officers and chief warrant officers who are twice 
nonselected for ADL promotion by an HQDA centralized board are shown in table  5  –  4. 
 
Table 5  –  4 
Twice nonselected for promotion separation (Headquarters, Department of the Army Board)  —  Continued  
Step  Work center  Required action  
1 PPAA  
BN S  –  1 The commander notifies the nonselected officer no earlier than 2 days before the release of the appropri-
ate promotion list. Counsels the officer regarding options and ensures the officer returns the “acknowledg-
ment of notification of nonselection” to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) by the suspense date. Files a copy of the 
notification  memorandum and the acknowledgment in the officer’s MPF until the officer is separated.  
2 PPAA  Reports a dual status officer to HRC (AHRC  –  OPD  –  A) for processing.  
3 PPAA  To prevent a break in service, when an officer elects to continue on AD in another  status (for example, 
enlistment or appointment as a warrant officer), forwards the request for resignation or discharge (see fig 
5  –  1 or fig 5  –  2) as follows (ensures the officer states in the memorandum of resignation or discharge that 
he or she will not be entitled to separation pay):  
a. For a commissioned officer, not later than 3 months before the mandatory discharge or release date.  
b. For a warrant officer, as soon as possible after receipt of the mandatory discharge.  
4 PPAA (TC)  Final separation orders and forms will cite regulatory authority and SPD as shown in AR 635  –  5  –  1. 