
2–2. Accounting for Army property
a. All property (including historical artifacts, art, flags, organizational property, and associated items) acquired by
the Army from any source, whether bought, scrounged, or donated, must be accounted for as prescribed by thisregulation and other appropriate ARs. The accounting will be continuous from the time of acquisition until the ultimateconsumption or disposal of the property occurs. Supporting documents will be maintained as prescribed by appropriateregulations.
b. Property is categorized for financial accounting and reporting purposes as tangible property both real and personal
property. Real property consists of lands and permanent structures (see chap 4). Personal property is made up ofequipment and other nonexpendable supplies, collectively called nonconsumable supplies, all consumable supplies (seechap 4), and relocatable buildings.
c. All property or material, except real and contractor-acquired property, acquired in any manner will be properly
accounted for on item detail accounting records and financial (dollar) item accounting records. Responsibility will be
fixed as prescribed by this regulation or other Army policy. The local commander may direct more stringent controls
for expendable material.
d. All Army property, except real property, will be classified for property accounting purposes as expendable,
durable, or nonexpendable. The criteria for the assignment of each accounting requirements code are shown in chapter7. The physical characteristics and the anticipated use are the main factors in classifying an item. However, unit pricewill be considered to ensure that the costs of the accounting procedures being required are not out of proportion to thecost of the item being controlled. Items classified as—
(1) Nonexpendable will require formal property book accounting at the user level.(2) Expendable or durable items require no formal accounting after issue to the user level unless these items
specifically fall under the criteria of paragraph 7–7 b and AR 710–2.
(3) All durable property will be controlled at the user level using hand-receipt procedures or managed using
inventory lists. The brigade and battalion commander or the head of the activity will monitor items coded durable inaccordance with paragraph 7–5 b. In addition, the commander or the head of the activity will conduct management
reviews annually, in accordance with paragraph 7–7 d.
e. Accountable officers will establish accountability for any property not accounted for as soon as the discrepancy is
discovered.
f. Employees of the Army, both military and civilian, will turn in all found Government property to the supply
system.