
4–7. General policy
a. Interim requirement. A short-term, urgent requirement due to transitory peak military missions, deployments,
military contingency operations, disaster relief requirements, or pending approval and construction of real propertyfacilities via normal military construction programs. The short term requirement must have an approved exit plan todispose of the facility or facilities.
b. Relocatable building and/or facility. Personal property used as a structure, that would have a building category
code if it were real property, designed to be readily moved, erected, disassembled, stored, reused, and meets the 20percent rule. Personal property is managed as equipment.
(1) The sum of building disassembly, repackaging, and nonrecoverable building components, including typical
foundation costs must not exceed 20 percent of the purchase cost of the relocatable building and/or facility. If thepercentage is greater than 20 percent, then the facility must be acquired as real property and follows real propertyproject approval authorities. Typical foundations include blocking, footings, bearing plates, ring walls, and slabs thatare an integral part of the relocatable building facility. Foundations do not include construction cost of real propertyutilities, roads, sidewalks, parking, force protection, fencing, signage, lighting, and other site preparation (clearing,grubbing, ditching, drainage, filling, compacting, grading, and landscaping). Slabs that are real property and not part ofthe actual building are not counted in the 20 percent.
(2) Tents that use real property utilities will be considered relocatable buildings and/or facility.c. Site preparation project approval.(1) Site preparation costs are classified as construction because the items installed are permanent in nature and
become real property-foundations, utilities, and parking. Projects for site preparation are subject to the statutoryapproval limitations for new construction. A construction project must result in a complete and usable facility. In thecase of site preparation projects, the “complete and usable facility” is the prepared site. Accordingly, for projectapproval purposes, the work to prepare each distinct site is a project. Generally, in order to be “distinct,” a site ischaracterized by the following:
(a) Independent of work at any other site to be “complete and usable.”
(b) Independent of mission function at any other site to be “complete and usable.”
(c) Site preparation work on no other site is dependent on it.
(2) Site preparation costs must be combined into one project for approval purposes for sites that are interdependent,
but may be separately approved for sites that are interrelated. Interrelated contiguous sites are considered distinct andseparate as long as each site is prepared as a complete and useable independent project.
d. Expense and/or investment threshold. The expense and/or investment threshold applies to the purchase and
assembly and does not include delivery and setup.
e. Delivery and setup. The process of bringing the relocatable components from the point of origin to the point of
destination and includes all work necessary to unload and stage the components. Delivery and setup will be locallyapproved.
f. Purchase and assembly. Procurement of the relocatable components and work necessary to have a complete
building or system, excluding delivery and setup. Assembly includes connection to existing utility systems. Purchaseand assembly are included in the approval request.
g. Personal property. Purchased relocatable buildings and/or facilities are inventoried, accounted for with item
unique identification which will be tied to a specific approval document.
h. Services contracts. Services contracts will not be used to acquire relocatable buildings and/or facility.
i. Approval. Army relocatable building and/or facility approval and redelegation authorities action include the
commander, IMCOM, NGB, ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commanders, or Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army(Installations and Housing) lease (nonbase realignment and closure) Time: known requirement 1 year or less and cost:
total lease $100,000 or less. Time: known requirement exceeds 1 year or cost: greater than $100,000. Purchase no
authority unrestricted.
j. Approval authorities. The authorities for leased relocatable buildings and/or facility are based on the total
estimated leased cost. Setup, sustainment, and removal costs are normally contained within the lease.
k. Approval authorities for purchased relocatable buildings and/or facility are based on the total estimated cost (total
actual purchase plus assembly).
l. IMCOM and/or NGB will validate and submit requests in accordance with installation SOPs for relocatable
buildings or facilities on IMCOM and/or NGB controlled installations. For contingency areas and installations notfunded by and under command and control of IMCOM or NGB, ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs will validate and submitrequests in accordance with installation SOPs for relocatable buildings and/or facilities directly to the Assistant Chiefof Staff of Installation Management (ACSIM) with a copy of the request provided to IMCOM or NGB. The projectapproval documentation will consist of the following:
(1) A request memorandum from the region or HQ.(2) Legal review.(3) Completed relocatable building and/or facility approval worksheet (IMCOM-developed and ACSIM-approved
format).
(4) Validated economic analysis.(5) Approved site plan.(6) Justification for relocatable requirement.m. IMCOM or NGB will maintain a comprehensive list of all Army relocatable buildings and/or facility, including
those located at non-IMCOM or NGB controlled installations. IMCOM and/or NGB will cross-level all Army-ownedrelocatable buildings and/or facilities at the end of the approved period of use.
n. The approved period of use begins with beneficial occupancy date of relocatable building and/or facilities.
o. IMCOM or NGB will ensure that relocatable buildings and/or facility, including those from non-Army tenants,
meet all current Army standards for relocatable buildings and/or facilities or have obtained a waiver from HQDA(DAIM–OD).
p. Real property conversion and diversion rules do not apply to personal property relocatable buildings and/or
facilities.