
13–29. Financial liability officer’s responsibilities
A financial liability officer’s responsibility is to determine the cause and value of the loss or damage of Government
property listed on the DD Form 200, and to determine if assessment of financial liability is warranted. Thatdetermination must be determined from the facts developed during a thorough and impartial investigation. However,before beginning the investigation the financial liability officer must have an understanding of the terms “respon-sibility, culpability, proximate cause, and loss;” each term impacts upon a determination of financial liability. Individu-als may be held financially liable for the loss or damage of Government property if they were negligent or havecommitted willful misconduct, and their negligence or willful misconduct is the proximate cause of that loss ordamage. The following terms are addressed in order to assist the financial liability officer in evaluating financialliability:
a. Responsibility.(1) General. The type of responsibility a person has for property determines the obligations incurred by that
individual for the property. DA Pam 735–5 presents specific issues the financial liability officer must consider beforerecommending financial liability.
(2) Command responsibility. The obligation of a commander to ensure all Government property within their
command is properly used and cared for, and that proper custody, accountability, safekeeping, and disposition ofGovernment property are provided. Command responsibility is inherent in command and cannot be delegated. It isevidenced by assignment to command at any level and includes the following:
(a) Ensuring the security of all property within the command, whether in use or in storage.
(b) Observing subordinates to ensure their activities contribute to the proper custody, care, use, accountability,
safekeeping, and disposition of all property within the command.
(c) Enforcing all security, safety, and accounting requirements.
(d) Taking administrative or disciplinary action when necessary.
(3) Supervisory responsibility. The obligation of a supervisor to ensure all Government property issued to, or used
by its subordinates, is properly used and cared for, and that proper custody, safekeeping and disposition of the propertyare provided. It is inherent in all supervisory positions and is not contingent upon signed receipts or responsibilitystatements. It arises because of assignment to a specific position and includes the following:
(a) Providing proper guidance and direction.
(b) Enforcing all security, safety, and accounting requirements.
(c) Maintaining a supervisory climate that will facilitate and ensure the proper care and use of Government property.
(4) Direct responsibility. The obligation of a person to ensure all Government property for which they have
receipted is properly used and cared for, and that proper custody, accountability, safekeeping, and disposition areprovided. Direct responsibility results from assignment as an accountable officer, receipt of formal written delegation,or acceptance of the property on-hand receipt from an accountable officer.
(5) Custodial responsibility. The obligation of an individual for property in storage awaiting issue or turn-in to
exercise reasonable and prudent actions to properly care for, and ensure proper custody, safekeeping and disposition ofthe property are provided. Custodial responsibility results from assignment as a supply sergeant, supply custodian,supply clerk, or warehouse person. Personnel with custodial responsibility are rated by and answerable directly to theaccountable officer or the individual having direct responsibility for the property. Responsibilities includes thefollowing:
(a) Ensuring the security of all property stored within the supply room and storage annexes belonging to the supply
room or SSA is adequate.
(b) Observing subordinates to ensure their activities contribute to the proper custody, care, safekeeping and disposi-
tion of all property within the supply room and storage annexes belonging to the supply room or SSA.
(c) Enforcing all security, safety, and accounting requirements.
(d) When unable to enforce any of these, reporting the problem(s) to their immediate supervisor.
(6) Personal responsibility. The obligation of a person to exercise reasonable and prudent actions to properly use,
care for, safeguard and dispose of all Government property in their physical possession. It applies to all Governmentproperty issued for, acquired for, or converted to a person’s exclusive use, with or without receipt.
b. Culpability.(1) Before a person can be held financially liable, the facts must show that they, through negligence or willful
misconduct, violated a particular responsibility or duty involving the property.
(2) Simple negligence is the absence of due care, by an act or omission of a person which lacks that degree of care
for the property that a reasonably prudent person would have taken under similar circumstances, to avoid the loss or
damage of Government property.
(3) Gross negligence is an extreme departure from due care resulting from an act or omission of a person
accountable or responsible for Government property which falls far short of that degree of care for the property that areasonably prudent person would have taken under similar circumstances. It is accompanied by a reckless, deliberate,or wanton disregard for the foreseeable loss or damage to the property.
(4) Whether a person’s acts or omissions constitute negligence depends on the circumstances of each case. Negli-
gence under some circumstances may not reflect negligence under other circumstances. Therefore, fully consider thefollowing factors, as a minimum, when determining the reasonableness of a person’s conduct:
(a) The person’s age, experience, physical condition, and special qualifications.
(b) The type of responsibility the person had toward the property.
(c) The type and nature of the property.
(d) The nature, complexity, level of danger, or urgency of the activity ongoing at the time of the LDDT of the
property.
(e) The adequacy of supervisory measures or guidance for property control.
(f) The feasibility of maintaining close supervision over the property, given the nature and complexity of the
organization or activity supervised.
(g) The extent supervision could influence the situation considering pressing duties or lack of qualified assistants.
(5) Willful misconduct is any intentional wrongful or unlawful act or omission relating to Government property.(6) A retired military member or civilian employee can be held financially liable for the loss or damage of
Government property that can be attributed to their negligence while on active duty or employed by DA.
c. Proximate cause. Before holding a person financially liable for a loss to the Government, the facts must clearly
show that the person’s conduct was the “proximate” cause of the LDDT. That is, the person’s acts or omissions werethe cause that, in a natural and continuous sequence, unbroken by a new cause, produced the LDDT, and withoutwhich the LDDT would not have occurred.
d. Loss. Before holding a person financially liable for a loss to the Government, the facts must clearly show that the
person’s conduct was the “proximate” cause of the loss or damage. That is, the person’s acts or omissions were thecause that, in a natural and continuous sequence, unbroken by a new cause, produced the loss or damage, and withoutwhich the loss or damage would not have occurred.