
13–37. Appointing authority’s decision
The appointing authority will review the action taken by the financial liability officer, making certain all requirements
have been met, and then will—
a. Return the investigation to the financial liability officer for additional investigation. If further investigation is
required and/or pertinent instructions have not been complied with, the appointing authority will return the investiga-tion to the financial liability officer as an enclosure to a memorandum specifying what additional data and/orcorrections are required.
b. Concur with the findings and recommendations. If the appointing authority concurs with the recommendations of
the financial liability officer, they will process the DD Form 200 as follows:
(1) Check “Approve” in block 13a.(2) Complete blocks 13b and 13d through 13h.(3) Forward the DD Form 200 with all exhibits to the approving authority. Approving authorities may require the
appointing authority to obtain a legal opinion review from the legal office before forwarding the DD Form 200.
c. Nonconcur with findings and recommendations. If the appointing authority nonconcurs with the financial liability
officer’s recommendations, they will process the DD Form 200 by—
(1) Checking “Disapprove” in block 13a.(2) Enter a statement in block 13b showing the rationale upon which their decision is based.(3) Samples for block 13b should read:(a) DD Form 200, block 13b continued, Investigation of Property Loss WAH8AA–14–FA–055, ,
$63,377.50.
(b) Recommend financial liability against CPT Doe for failure to properly provide records in which to ensure proper
custody was maintained. The circumstances in block 9 shows that CPT Doe failed to keep any records of equipment asit was issued or hand receipted to the users or supervisors. In fact, there is not a single valid subhand receipt for anyproperty. He failed to ensure that these records were maintained by anyone. Although CPT Doe had a great amount ofsupply personnel turbulence during his command, the onerous of the failure to keep any hand receipts lies with himalong. He never asked nor did he seek to see the company’s or supervisor’s hand receipts. If he knew the fact that nohand receipts were kept, he did nothing to rectify the issue. He had many chances to fix his problem during cyclicinventories and command inspections. The loss of this equipment was caused by this lack of records.
(c) Recommend that CPT Doe be held liable for the loss of the equipment which totaled $34,834.23 after
depreciation. CPT Doe’s monthly base pay is $4,149.30.
(4) If the financial liability officer does not recommend financial liability and the appointing authority recommends
financial liability, ensuring the procedures outlined in paragraph 13–34 c and paragraph 13–35 are accomplished.
(4) Completing blocks 13d through 13h.(5) Forward the DD Form 200 with exhibits to the approving authority.
Section IX
Review by Approval Authority