
11–6. Implementation procedures
a. Requirements listing (AR 710–2).(1) A compilation of existing requirements is established as a requirements listing. The present supply-oriented
supervisory responsibilities are listed according to level of responsibility.
(2) Each level of command will review the requirements listing for completeness and make the necessary additions
to account for any uniqueness.
b. Implementation.(1) Each commander will provide the personal interest and direction necessary to establish and ensure the success of
their CSDP.
(2) The CSDP will be incorporated into existing resources in the command to avoid redundancy of effort.(3) Each command level above the unit level will appoint a CSDP coordinator to assist the commander with
establishing and monitoring the CSDP.
c. Evaluations.(1) The CSDP does not require vertical assessments of subordinate organizations’ activities. Each command level is
required to evaluate the next lower level of operations (except for ROTC battalions, which will be inspected per AR710–2). Further evaluations of lower levels are as command directed.
(2) The frequency of evaluations is as follows:(a) The frequency of internal evaluations, as desired.
(b) External evaluations are conducted on a periodic basis as established in AR 710–2.
(3) The evaluation process is as follows:
(a) The purpose of the evaluation is to determine whether or not an organization is complying with regulatory
guidance.
(b) The requirements listing establishes the minimum standards (see AR 710–2). Commands are encouraged to
develop command checklists using the requirements listing as a baseline.
(c) Evaluators will record findings on each applicable requirements listing entry. The results of the last evaluation
will also be reviewed to determine if past discrepancies were resolved. Resolved and repeat findings will be noted.
(d) The organization’s supervisor will be briefed on the evaluation findings at the completion of the evaluation. The
supervisor, during the outbriefing, will establish a suspense date (get-well date) for resolution of each discrepancy.
(e) The supervisor’s chain of command is authorized to grant extensions to the established suspense date.
(f) In the case of a discrepancy due to circumstances beyond the control of the evaluated organization, refer to
paragraph 11–6 c(3)(i).
(g) In the case of repeat findings, the chain of command will be notified of the problem upon completion of the
evaluation in order to reestablish compliance.
(h) The evaluated organization and/or activity will be provided copies of each evaluation made under CSDP. The
copies will specify any noncompliance findings along with the respective suspense dates determined by the supervisor.The evaluator will also retain a copy of the evaluation and use it for follow-up on corrective actions during the nextperiodic evaluation.
(i) If major problems or policy questions are surfaced during a CSDP evaluation, these findings will be elevated up
the chain of command to that level capable of resolving the problem.
d. Documentation.(1) At the user level, no additional recordkeeping unique to the CSDP is required. The normal recording of
inventories and inspections are still required.
(2) The level conducting the external evaluation will—(a) Provide the subordinate organization a copy of the evaluation results.
(b) Establish a file of evaluations conducted. A minimum of two evaluations per organization will be maintained.
(3) The minimum information required in the file of evaluations conducted is—(a) Date of the evaluation.
(b) Organization evaluated.
(c) Findings and associated suspense dates.
(d) Repeat findings.
e. Intra-service support agreements. In order to make the CSDP a responsive and efficient program, maximum use
of intra-service support agreements is encouraged. Numerous tenant units are located at many installations. Chain ofcommand evaluations of these subordinate organizations in accordance with the CSDP frequency requirements maycreate extensive travel and man-hour support. Therefore, ACOMs, ASCCs, and/or DRUs are encouraged to enter intointra-service support agreements to authorize installation commanders to conduct evaluations of applicable tenant units.Evaluation results would then be forwarded to the respective ACOM, ASCC, and/or DRU headquarters.