
2–6. Inventories of personal property
a. Supplies and equipment on hand at U.S. Army Materiel Command (AMC) accountable supply distribution
activities and depots will be inventoried once a year according to DLM 4000.25–2. This will be done more often whenprescribed by other regulatory guidance.
b. A complete physical inventory of all supplies and equipment in storage at SSA awaiting issue or turn-in will be
accomplished annually according to AR 710–2, as applicable. The results will be reconciled with the stock accountingrecords.
c. At the user level, all on-hand property carried on property book records and/or hand receipt records will be
inventoried annually, or upon change of the primary hand receipt holder, whichever comes first.
d. Upon change of the PBO, all property not issued on hand receipt will be jointly inventoried by the outgoing and
incoming PBOs. The conduct of these inventories will be documented and the results reconciled with the accountingrecords. See AR 710–2 for variances in the frequencies of these inventories. The above inventories will be accom-plished in accordance with AR 710–2.
e. Real property heritage assets will be inventoried at least once every 3 years or upon change of the accountable
officer, whichever comes first, per AR 405–45. The results will be reconciled with the accounting records. Realproperty, general property, and equipment and stewardship land will be inventoried at least once every 5 years.
f. For Army prepositioned stocks (APS) a 100 percent inventory is required when ships are off loaded during cyclic
maintenance vessel berthing. Inventories will be conducted more often when prescribed by other regulations or whendirected by the commander or the accountable officer. The person having possession of, or having command and/ordirect responsibility, over the property is responsible for the conduct of the inventory. The accountable officer willensure inventories are conducted when required. A record of the inventory and all adjustment documents resulting fromthe inventory will be maintained with the property records for a minimum of 2 years.
g. Installation support activities collocated with Army maintenance depots will inventory their materiel assets using
the inventory rules of DLM 4000.25–2.
h. Library materials accounted for under the provisions of AR 735–17 will be inventoried on cyclic basis so all
items are inventoried at least once every 3 years.
i. When and where feasible and practical, physical inventories will be accomplished using AIT.
Section II
Accountability and Responsibility