
16–23. Step 3–Army property damaged or destroyed before reaching intended destination in
continental United States
When unable to deliver Army supplies and equipment at an intended destination because of the severity of damage
suffered while in the possession of the common carrier, take the actions shown below.
a. Action by shipping officer.(1) Upon receipt of data from a carrier that severity of damage prevents delivery of a shipment, the shipment officer
will—
(a) Make arrangements with the carrier, vendor, or originating Army installation for the repair or replacement.
(b) Notify the Army installation designated to receive the property of the circumstances involved, action taken, and
the new anticipated arrival date; and furnish a copy of covering BL with such data annotated on the BL.
(2) When the shipping officer decides to turn over damaged supplies and equipment to a Government repair activity
for repair or other disposition before delivery, they will-—
(a) Ascertain the suitable Army installation; promptly furnish disposition instructions to the carrier by the most
expeditious means of communication.
(b) Notify the Army installation designated to receive the damaged items for repair; forward a copy of the GBL
issued for such items along with DD Form 361 to use with DD Form 200 action.
b. Action by activity designated to receive the damaged items for repair.(1) Furnish the intended designated receiving officer detailed data as to the cost of repair and other data needed to
initiate a DD Form 200. Use a copy of the GBL provided by the shipping officer.
(2) Pick up on the stock records according to chapter 6. Report as excess the economically repairable materiel to the
proper inventory manager. When accepting a damaged vehicle delivered to an installation having a vehicle storagemission, in accordance with warehouse SOP requirements according to instructions to the Commander, AMC.
c. Responsibility of the intended receiving officer when the ultimate consignee is in continental United States. The
intended receiving officer will complete and distribute DD Form 361s prepared by military activities.