
13–35. Submission of individual rebuttal statement
a. Rebuttal statement. Individuals have the right to submit a rebuttal statement, or other added evidence, and to have
that statement or evidence considered and attached to the financial liability investigation of property loss for considera-tion by higher authority. Individuals against whom a charge of financial liability is recommended may obtain legaladvice from the servicing legal office, (Office of The Staff Judge Advocate, Post Judge Advocate, Command Counsel,or Legal Counsel). Normally this free legal advice is available only to military personnel and DOD civilian employeesper AR 27–3.
b. Time constraints.(1) An individual who receives a hand-delivered DD Form 200 packet has 7 calendar days from the date of receipt
to reply with a rebuttal statement or other additional evidence. This time will not be included when computing the totalprocessing time.
(2) Those individuals who are unavailable, but in the same country, have 15 calendar days from the date of mailing
or the date an email was sent to the individual to submit a rebuttal. The email will include a complete packet as anattachment. The investigating officer will ensure that sent, delivered and read verification is applied. All verificationemails will be attached to the DD Form 200 as exhibits. This time will not be included when computing the totalprocessing time.
(3) Those individuals who are unavailable, and in a country different than the financial liability officer, have 30
calendar days from the date of mailing or the date an email was sent to the individual to submit a rebuttal. The emailwill include a complete packet as an attachment. This time will not be included when computing the total processingtime.
(4) Notification to unavailable individuals will be made by certified mail, return receipt requested; or email to AKO,
with tracking option turned on. Copies of the notification memorandum will be attached to the DD Form 200 as anexhibit together with the evidence of mailing and return receipt or the email tracking document that the email has beenread by the recipient.
(5) When the financial liability officer receives a rebuttal statement within the allotted time, they will consider the
financial liability investigation of property loss together with any new evidence or allegations of error presented by therespondent. After review, attach the rebuttal statement to the DD Form 200. If the evidence provided changes thefinancial liability investigating officer’s findings and recommendation, the new findings and recommendation will beplaced in block 15a or on an added page. Forward the complete packet to the appointing authority or the approvingauthority as appropriate for action.
(6) When the financial liability officer does not receive a rebuttal statement within the allotted time, they will
forward the DD Form 200 showing the financial liability officer’s findings and recommendations to the appointingauthority or the approving authority as appropriate.
(7) When the financial liability officer receives a rebuttal statement after the time allotted for a rebuttal has expired,
they will consider any new evidence presented by the respondent. If appropriate, amend their recommendations andforward the amended recommendation by memorandum through the same channels the financial liability investigationwas processed.
c. Distribution. The financial liability officer will forward the original and copies (number as specified by the local
command) to the appointing authority or the approving authority as appropriate for action. The financial liability officerwill retain one copy.
Section VIII
Review of Financial Liability Officer’s Findings and Recommendations by a Designated Appointing
Authority