
13–41. Liability limits
a. When negligence or willful misconduct are shown to be the proximate cause for a loss, the following individuals
or entities will be assessed the full amount of the Government’s loss, minus amounts charged to others:
(1) Accountable officers.(2) States and territories of the United States.(3) Contractors and contractor employees (see the FAR).(4) Nonappropriated fund activities.(5) Persons losing public funds.(6) Soldiers losing personal arms or equipment.(7) Persons, who lose, damage, or destroy Government quarters, and/or furnishings and equipment provided by the
Government for use in quarters, through gross negligence or willful misconduct. If simple negligence is shown,paragraph 13–41 b applies.
(8) Individuals or entities not federally employed.b. In all other cases, the amount equal to one month’s basic pay at the time of the loss, or the actual amount of the
loss to the Government, whichever is less, may be assessed. The approval authority may reduce in whole or in part the
amount of the individual’s financial liability when the approval authority determines that the evidence documented inthe investigating officer’s findings indicates that the amount should be reduced because of the nature and circumstancessurrounding the damage or loss.
(1) An exception is for military members who lose both PA&E and OEP. In this case, the amount of liability will be
1 month’s base pay at the time of loss or the actual OEP amount of loss to the Government, whichever is less, plus theactual amount of the PA&E (see table 12–3).
(2) For ARNG and USAR personnel, 1 month’s basic pay refers to the amount that would be received by the
Soldier if on active duty.
(3) For DOD civilian employees, financial liability for losses of Government property (including personal arms and
equipment) is limited to 1/12 of their annual pay.
(4) When two or more financial liability investigations of property loss are processed that involve the same incident,
financial liability is limited to 1 month’s basic pay. (Compute the charge per table 12–3.)
c. When two or more entities are held collectively and individually liable for a single loss, their individual financial
charge is computed per table 12–4.
d. When a Soldier or DOD civilian employee is held collectively and individually liable with an individual and/or
entity identified in paragraph 13–41 a(8), table 12–4 is not used to compute the amounts of financial liability. The total
dollar amount of the loss is divided by the number of respondents. The amount derived from this equation is themaximum amount each respondent will be assessed. For Soldiers and DOD civilian employees, the amount of financialliability assessed will be the amount derived from the above equation or 1 month’s base pay or 1/12th the annualsalary, whichever is less.
Section X
Notice to Respondents on Assessment of Financial Liability