
2–11. Contractibility of the accountable officer
The responsibilities of the accountable officer as an individual and the position of the accountable officer are not
contractible. Those functions of the accountable officer that involve the exercise of substantive discretionary authorityin determining Government requirements and controlling Government assets cannot be contracted out. However,contractors can perform certain functions in support of the accountable officer when those functions are performed inaccordance with the criteria defined by the Government. These functions must be mandatory requirements, requiring nopersonal judgment or discretion on the part of the contractor.
a. The functions below in support of the accountable officer are contractible for stock control operations, property
control, troop issue subsistence activity (TISA), self-service supply centers (SSSCs), central issue facility (CIF), andclothing initial issue point operations, which includes the following:
(1) Cataloging.(2) Receiving operations (does not include Government certification of acceptance, which authorizes payment for
goods received from commercial vendors or contractors).
(3) Storage operations.(4) Issue operations.(5) Data conversions, files, document control, and inventory and adjustment (except the individual with final
approval authority will be a Government employee).
(6) Item management, materiel management, and similar accounting functions, except those with final approval
authority for discretionary actions such as determining requirements and authorizing disposal.
b. The following accountable officer functions are Governmental and cannot be performed by contractors for the
Army:
(1) Procurement management certifying the acceptance of goods received from commercial vendors or contractors,
which authorizes the payment for goods received.
(2) Those individuals with final approval authority as cited above on the immediate staff of the accountable officer.c. Contractors may be appointed as COMSEC custodians for COMSEC accounts designated as “Contractor Mainte-
nance COMSEC Accounts.” All other COMSEC custodians are considered accountable officers and therefore theirpositions and responsibilities are not contractible. Any exceptions to this policy must be sent through Deputy Chief ofStaff, G–2 (DCS, G–2) (DAMI–CDS) to the DCS, G–4 (DALO–SUS).