
2–9. Relationship between accountability and responsibility
Accountability pertains to maintaining formally prescribed property records for a property or sales account. It is an
obligation officially assigned to a specific person and may not be delegated. Responsibility pertains to the care,custody, safekeeping, and disposition of Government property. The specific type of responsibility depends on therelationship of the person to the property. Accountability and the five types of responsibility are separate obligations.They are incurred for separate reasons.
a. Accountability and each type of responsibility carry specific duties. Financial liability can be assessed against any
person who fails, through negligence or misconduct, to perform those duties and where such failure is the proximatecause of a loss to the Government (see para 13–29 c).
b. The appointment as an accountable officer for a stock record account and/or a property book account carries with
it responsibility as follows:
(1) At the stock record account level, the appointment as an accountable officer carries with it direct responsibility
for all the property carried on the stock accounting records. This direct responsibility may be further delegated to thestorage supervisor.
(2) At the property book level, the appointment as a PBO carries with it direct responsibility for all the property
carried on the property book records that has not been issued on hand receipt. Property issued by a PBO on handreceipt (called the primary hand receipt) carries with it the delegation of direct responsibility for the property listed.Further hand receipting (sub-hand receipting) does not transfer direct responsibility nor relieve the primary hand receiptholder of their duties.
c. Any member of the Army, civilian or military, may be charged with responsibility for property.
d. A contractor is charged with direct responsibility for specifically identified GFP provided to the contractor under
the terms of the contract.
Figure 2–1. Five types of responsibilities and their relationship to levels of command
Section III
Accountable Officer