
13–43. Respondent’s actions
When an individual has been notified that financial liability has been approved, the individual will, with the advice of
legal counsel, thoroughly review the financial liability investigation packet provided, and then decide whether or not totake one of the actions listed below.
a. Request reconsideration of the approving authority’s decision. Submit requests for reconsideration by memoran-
dum through their immediate commander to the approving authority. Submit requests for reconsideration only on thebasis of legal error. Figure 13–19 shows a sample request for reconsideration.
(1) When the approving authority does not reverse their original decision to approve financial liability, the request
for reconsideration becomes an appeal, which will be forwarded to the appeal authority by the approving authority.
(2) The request for reconsideration will set forth, in detail, any new evidence offered, and provide rationale why
financial liability is not appropriate.
(3) A request for reconsideration stops all collection action pending a decision by the approving authority and/or the
appeal authority.
b. Submit a request for a hearing (civilian employees only). Request a hearing concerning the amount of the debt, or
the terms of the proposed repayment schedule. Respondents choosing to submit a request for a hearing must firstsubmit a request for reconsideration through the approving authority to the appeal authority. Requests for a hearing willbe submitted by memorandum through the respondent’s immediate commander to the servicing FAO or USPFO, wherearrangements for a hearing will be made. Figure 13–20 shows a sample request for a hearing.
(1) The request for a hearing will set forth in detail any new evidence offered, and explain why the individual
believes the amount of the debt is incorrect, and/or why the individual believes the proposed repayment schedule willbe changed.
(2) A request for a hearing stops all collection action pending a decision of the individual conducting the hearing.c. Request remission or cancellation of indebtedness under the provisions of AR 600–4.
d. Request extension of the collection period. Figure 13–21 shows a sample request for extension.
e. Submit an application, DD Form 149 to the Army Board for Correction of Military Records (ABCMR) under the
provision of AR 15–185.
f. A request for reconsideration, or hearing, will be processed only if received within the time prescribed by figure
13–17 and figure 13–18 unless the individual can show good cause for failing to take one of the above actions withinthe time prescribed.