
14–19. Losses of durable hand tools and components of sets, kits, and outfits at the using unit level
when negligence or willful misconduct is not suspected
a. Modified table of organization and equipment organization. Using unit commanders are authorized to adjust
losses of durable hand tools and components of SKO up to $500 per incident when the losses did not occur fromnegligence or misconduct. When determining the total cost of these lost durable items, the depreciated price will beused per paragraph b–2 b(1).
(1) Prepare a memorandum in the following format:(a) Subject block: Memorandum for Record; Adjustment Document.
(b) Prepare a narrative of the incident.
(c) List the items requiring adjustment by end-item LIN and NSN (if applicable), nomenclature, unit of issue,
number of items to be adjusted, unit price, extended price, and total price.
(2) Immediately after the last item adjusted, enter the following statement over the signature of the commander: “I
have reviewed the circumstances surrounding the loss of the above items and find no evidence of negligence or willfulmisconduct.”
(3) Prepare the memorandum in original, plus one copy for each hand receipt involved. This memorandum requires
no approval above the unit level. File the original in a consolidated file, in hand receipt holder sequence, for review bythe financial liability investigation of property loss approving authority per paragraph 14–19 c. Retain the file for 2
years. The duplicate copy(s) is filed in the appropriate hand receipt file to support the adjustment action. The duplicatecopy will be destroyed upon receipt of the replacement for the lost hand tool.
b. TDA organization. In TDA organizations, individuals occupying positions equivalent to that of a unit commander,
in a MTOE environment are authorized to adjust losses of durable hand tools and components of SKO using the sameprovisions cited in paragraph 14–19 a. In TDA organizations, those individuals will normally occupy a directorate or
division level TDA position. Use the major TDA paragraphs as a guide. Individuals not filling those major TDApositions do not have the authority to adjust losses of durable hand tools under the provisions of paragraph a.
c. Review criteria. Memorandums used as adjustment documents for losses of durable hand tools and components of
SKO, as prescribed in paragraph 14–19 a and paragraph 14–19 b, will be summarized quarterly (adjustment documents
will be attached to the summary) and forwarded to the financial liability investigation of property loss approvingauthority for review. Following the review, the approving authority will sign and return the summary and the attachedadjustment documents to the unit commander.
(1) The approving authority’s review will validate the absence of abuse to this adjustment method.(2) When abuse is suspected, the approving authority will direct an AR 15–6 investigation or a DD Form 200 will
be initiated. Any suspicion of abuse will result in the automatic suspension of this authorization until the unitcommander is cleared of suspicion.
(3) The approving authority will annotate concurrence or nonconcurrence on the quarterly summary. A copy of the
quarterly summary will be retained on file by the approving authority for 2 years.