
10–3. Reserve Officers’ Training Corps or National Defense Cadet Corps bonding
a. Each institution hosting ROTC or National Defense Cadet Corps (NDCC) units must post a bond or other
indemnity in such amount as is adequate, but not less than $5,000, for the care and safekeeping of all property issuedto the institution to include uniforms stored by the institution; exceptions will include uniforms issued to cadets,expendable articles, and supplies expended in operation, maintenance, or instruction. A bond without surety thereon isacceptable if the institution concerned furnishes satisfactory evidence of its financial responsibility. Bonding is notrequired when institutions elect to have accountability and responsibility for Government property retained by the DA(senior program units only).
b. The Secretary of the Army delegates to ROTC region commanders and major overseas commanders having
authorized ROTC units under their jurisdiction the authority to determine the amount of the bond to be required andthe financial responsibility of the institution. All such determinations by these commanders will be made “For theSecretary of the Army” on the basis of the standards in c and d below. Any case not clearly falling within theses t a n d a r d s  w i l l  b e  f o r w a r d e d  t h r o u g h  c o m m a n d  c h a n n e l s  t o  U . S .  A r m y  H u m  a n  R e s o u r c e  C o m m a n d  ( A H R C )
(AHRC–OPD–C), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue Fort Knox, KY 40122–5405 for action by the Secretary of theArmy (see exempt report, AR 335–15). The submission will include the following:
(1) Evidence of financial responsibility of the institution, including a financial statement.(2) Total value of the following controlled items entrusted to the institution:(a) All weapons smaller than 40 millimeters.
(b) Small arms ammunition.
(c) Field glasses, compasses, stopwatches, and fire control equipment.
(d) Other valuable items susceptible to pilferage (such as, knives, bayonets, radiac meters, radiac chargers, and
dosimeters).
(3) The cumulative value of losses of controlled items of property over the past 3 years.(4) A statement by the ROTC region commander of the experience in recovering such losses from the institution
over the past 3 years. (This statement is sufficient evidence of financial responsibility for State institutions or schoolsoperating under State charters or directly under the control of municipalities.)
c. In determining the amount of the bond to be required of an institution, the following standards apply:
(1) The amount of the bond will not be less than $5,000.
(2) The amount of the bond will not be less than the value of cumulative losses of property requiring bonding
incurred by the institution during the preceding 3 years.
(3) The amount of the bond will not be less than the ROTC region commander considers adequate to protect the
interest of the Government for the property involved.
d. In determining that a bond without surety thereon is acceptable, the following is considered adequate evidence of
the institution’s financial responsibility:
(1) A financial statement of the institution that shows that total assets exceed the total liabilities by an amount
greater than the total value of the property requiring bond that is, or will be, issued to the institution.
(2) An independent audit, other report, or other documentary evidence indicating that the institution accounts
payable are settled within 10 days, and that its commercial credit rating is satisfactory (such as, AAA and AA).
(3) In the case of schools operating under State charters and institutions directly under the control of municipalities,
documentary evidence showing, during the preceding 3 years, amounts due the Government in connection with theROTC or NDCC program were paid promptly by the institution.
e. Supplies and equipment will not be issued to an institution that maintains accountability and responsibility for
such supplies and equipment until a bond has been executed and filed with the appropriate ROTC region commandheadquarters, or the U.S. is otherwise indemnified.
f. ROTC region commanders will review bonds in force at least once every 3 years to ensure conformance with
standards prescribed in paragraph 10–3 c and paragraph 10–3 d. Institutions will be required to furnish the reports and
statements necessary to make a proper review.
g. On establishment of an Army ROTC or NDCC unit at an institution which is required, or elects, to maintain
accountability and responsibility for supplies and equipment to be issued, the ROTC region commander will—
(1) Obtain two copies of the following:(a) The resolution or bylaw citing the authority of the president or other designated officer to execute the bond on
behalf of the institution and designating an institutional representative to be the military property custodian. Thesecopies will be authenticated as true copies by the signature of the secretary and by the corporate seal, where applicable.In the case of high schools, an authenticated attestation by the governing assemblage designating a representative to bemilitary custodian will be obtained.
(b) The charter or articles of incorporation, or similar documentary evidence of organization, or a reference to the
statute if incorporated by direct legislative action.
(2) Forward one set of the documents to AHRC (AHRC–OPD–C), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue Fort Knox, KY
40122–5405. The other set will be retained at the ROTC region headquarters.
h. On approval of the establishment of an Army ROTC or NDCC unit at an institution that will maintain
accountability and responsibility for Government property, the ROTC region commander will forward to the institutiona DA Form 1622–R (Bond for Safekeeping of Government Property Issued to Educational Institutions). If necessary,DA Form 1622–1–R (Affidavits of Individual Sureties) will also be forwarded to the institution, along with a statementof the approximate value of the Government property authorized for initial issue to the institution. The amount of thebond and requirements for acceptance of a bond without surety thereon also will be provided.
i. The surety on the bond, if required, may be U.S. bonds or notes deposited with the ROTC region commander.
j. The bond or other form of indemnification, when duly executed, will be returned to the ROTC region commander.
The commander will retain it and assure the sufficiency of the sureties required. No bond or other form of indemnifica-tion will be accepted until it has been examined and approved by the installation or overseas command judge advocate.
k. When a bond presently in effect conforms to the above requirements, no change in the bond is necessary. When a
new bond is required, the forms prescribed in paragraph 10–3 h will be used.
l. Where an institution maintains both Army and other Service ROTC or NDCC units, a separate bond will be
needed to cover DA property that requires a bond. Provisions of this paragraph apply with respect to such bond.