
14–27. Personal clothing and organizational clothing and individual equipment
a. The commanders of Active Army, USAR, and ARNG members, and ROTC cadets are responsible for initiating
financial liability investigations of property loss when property issued from a CIF becomes lost, damaged, or destroyed,and none of the methods cited in chapter 12 can be used to obtain relief from responsibility. Additionally, thecommanders of USAR and ARNG members and ROTC cadets are responsible for initiating financial liability investiga-tions of property loss when property issued from a clothing initial issue point becomes lost, damaged, or destroyed.
b. The following applies to the loss of personal clothing and OCIE when a USAR member, ARNG member, or
ROTC cadet stops participating in training sessions (unsatisfactory participant whose whereabouts is unknown), andhas not returned their personal clothing and/or OCIE. Also, applies to active duty personnel in dropped-from-rolesstatus whose OCIE is not available for turn in.
(1) DD Form 200 will be initiated. The initiator will complete DD Form 200, blocks 1 and 3 through 11. The DD
Form 200 will be forwarded to the approving authority for assignment of an inquiry and/or investigation number inblock 2 and then forwarded to the accountable officer for assignment of a document number. The accountable officerwill assign a document number in block 17a, and complete blocks 17b through 17f, and forward the DD Form 200 tothe approving authority.
(2) Before the approving authority makes a decision to hold the individual financially liable, the DD Form 200 must
first be reviewed by the servicing office of the Staff Judge Advocate for legal sufficiency. Once the legal advisorprovides a legal opinion saying there is legal sufficiency to hold individual financially liable, the approving authoritywill complete blocks 14a through h, and insert the following statement in block 14b: “Member or cadet (insert name,grade if applicable and SSN) is held financially liable for the amount indicated in block 8, less depreciation allowed inthis regulation.”
(3) The approving authority will forward one copy of the completed DD Form 200 to the servicing FAO or USPFO
for collection. The DD Form 200 will be forwarded under a transmittal memorandum requesting acknowledgment ofreceipt and verification that the DD Form 200 was processed for collection.
(4) If the FAO or USPFO cannot make collections because no pay is due, the DD Form 200 will be forwarded to
the servicing claims office for collection. For USAR Soldiers for whom no pay is due, the DD Form 200 will bereturned to the approving authority, who will take the following actions:
(a) If the charge is $250 or less, a copy of the DD Form 200 will be filed as an uncollectible debt in the financial
liability investigation of property loss files. A copy will be mailed to the U.S. Army Reserve Personnel Center, 9700Page Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63132–5200 for inclusion in the respondent’s permanent record.
(b) If the charge is more than $250, a copy of the DD Form 200 will be forwarded to the Defense Finance and
Accounting Service-Indianapolis Center, Department 80, Indianapolis, IN 46249–0001, for collection.