
13–31. Conducting the investigation
Investigative work is a critical phase of the financial liability investigation of property loss system. A financial liability
officer’s task is to seek out all the facts that surround the loss or damage of Government property. The followingparagraphs will assist the financial liability officer in collecting data needed to develop the findings:
a. A financial liability officer must stay free from bias or prejudice. An investigation should not be started with
predetermined ideas as to what caused, or who is to blame for the LDDT. A thorough investigation may establish nofault, or it may establish that financial liability should be recommended.
b. The financial liability officer must begin the investigation immediately upon notification of being appointed
financial liability officer.
c. As first priority, physically examine any damaged property, and release it for repair or turn-in. If expert opinion
will be of value in determining the cause of damage, or the cost of repair, ensure that technical inspectors examine theproperty and give statements regarding any damaged property. If the damaged property is the result of a vehicularaccident involving a GSA vehicle or a rental vehicle rented from a commercial activity, and the proof of damages(such as, photographs) and estimated cost of damages were documented according to paragraph 13–12 e, it is not
necessary for the financial liability officer to release the vehicle for repair or turn-in. However, the financial liabilityofficer must rely on this documentation in lieu of physically examining the damaged vehicle.
d. Interview and obtain statements from all individuals whose useful testimony may assist in deciding the cause of,
or responsibility for, the LDDT of the property listed on the DD Form 200. For losses or damages previouslyinvestigated by a board of officers, military police, or other authorized official, obtain a copy of the report, or extractedinformation and attach it to the DD Form 200 as an exhibit. When using classified or otherwise sensitive references,make a statement to that effect in block 15a along with the location and identification of the investigation report.Obtain other available exhibits such as hand receipts or ECODs.
e. Statements and other evidence provided by persons who were responsible for the property listed on a DD Form
200 may be self-serving. The financial liability officer must confirm, through the use of other independent statementsand evidence gathered in the financial liability investigation, if available, as well as any other evidence of reliabilitythat the financial liability officer considers relevant to indicate that such statements and evidence are factual.
f. The evidence provided by different persons may conflict. The financial liability officer must resolve conflicts and
determine the true facts, as far as possible, by comparing the conflicting versions with other known facts, surroundingcircumstances, and common sense.
g. The evidence provided by different persons may conflict. The financial liability officer must resolve conflicts and
determine the true facts, as far as possible, by comparing the conflicting versions with other known facts, surroundingcircumstances, and common sense.
h. Obtain and mark evidence as follows and attach to each copy of the DD Form 200:
(1) Prepare witness statements on DA Form 2823. When DA Form 2823 is not available, use plain bond or ruled
paper, 8
1⁄2 by 11 inches, with the word “Certificate” typed or legibly printed across the top. Statements and/or
certificates will be dated and signed by the individual giving the statement and/or certificate.
(2) Mark the bottom of each exhibit alphabetically, followed with the date, amount, and organization or account
shown on the face of the DD Form 200 (for example, “Exhibit A, DD Form 200, , $375.00, Co Z, 906thSignal Battalion.”)