
16–35. Step 4–Disposition of damaged property
a. The damaged property may consist of articles falling within the classes below. If so, dispose of it as shown for
each class. When proper, furnish data as to the salvage or scrap value of the articles received in damaged conditionwith the original DD Form 200 for credit to the common carrier.
(1) Special or technical articles for which specific disposition instructions have been published by DA or by the
commodity command concerned will be disposed of according to such instructions immediately upon a decision thatthe physical presence of the damaged article is no longer required as evidence. This class of property includes motorvehicles.
(2) Do not dispose of classified articles referred to in AR 380–5 in a way that may disclose classified information to
unauthorized parties. They will be disposed of under paragraph (1), when applicable. Otherwise, specific instructionswill be obtained from an authorized representative of the commodity command concerned.
(3) Do not release articles not covered by paragraph 16–35 a(1) and (2), containing valuable parts or subassemblies
to the carrier for salvage. Turn this type item over to a repair shop.
b. When a common carrier, through its authorized claims representative, accepts full responsibility for the actual
value, permit the carrier to retain the damaged property. This applies except for damaged property in the abovecategories. Obtain a receipt to include a description of the damaged property from the local agent of the carrier. Enter astatement such as the one shown at table 16–1 on the receipt. Get the statement signed by an agent of the carrier. Makesure each item disposed of in this way clearly reflects the DD Form 361. A depreciation factor may apply to propertyaccepted by the carrier. Use this factor when determining the actual full value. When holding a common carrierresponsible for the full value of the property damaged beyond economical repair or serviceability, and the property hassalvage value, the carrier will receive credit for the salvage value.
Table 16–1
Acknowledgement and receipt of return of a discrepancy in shipment

The existence of the shipment discrepancy as described above is acknowledged. The above damaged property has been returned to t he
common carrier for mitigation of damages. It will be accounted for in the amount the carrier receives from its sale. The carrie r will hold
the proceeds in escrow until the final responsibility and financial liability are determined.
Agent
For freight claim agent