
8–7. Preparation of the report of proceedings
Except as otherwise prescribed in this regulation, the conduct and the reports of proceedings of boards of officers
convened under this regulation will conform to AR 15–6. The following essential elements of information will be
included in the report:
a .  S t a t i o n  w h e r e  t h e  a c c o u n t  u n d e r  i n v e s t i g a t i o n  i s ,  o r  w a s  l o c a t e d ,  a n d   t h e  d e s i g n a t i o n  a n d  s e r i a l  n u m b e r
(DODAAC if stock record account, or UIC if property book) of the account.
b. Purpose of the board’s investigation.
c. Facts disclosed by the board’s investigation, in sequence, and including all pertinent data necessary for a proper
understanding of the situation.
d. The board’s conclusions with respect to, but not limited to, the following subjects:
(1) Whether the account is regarded as being in proper condition for audit. If the account cannot be placed in proper
condition without an undue amount of effort, the findings will so indicate. The period during which the account isregarded as being unsatisfactory or unauditable will be specified.
(2) Identification of any person or persons responsible for the improper or illegal disposition of records, the failure
to conform to published accounting instructions, or the failure to exercise proper supervision. An opinion will beexpressed in each case as to whether negligence or criminal intent was involved.
(3) Whether there is an indication of negligence or willful misconduct shown on the part of a person or persons in
connection with the improper or illegal disposition of any assets of the account. The board will also indicate the statusof any actions initiated under other regulations or the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
e. The board will only make recommendations that fall within the approval jurisdiction of the reviewing authorities.
For instance, a recommendation that a person be discharged from the Service or be tried by court-martial would not beproper. However, a recommendation that the findings of the board be brought to the attention of those exercising thatjurisdiction would be proper.
(1) The board may properly state that the evidence indicates the loss was caused by negligence on the part of a
specific person or persons, and recommend that a DD Form 200 be processed under the provisions of chapter 13 of thisregulation. In such cases, the board will not act as the financial liability officer, but will ensure that a copy of theboard’s proceedings is provided to the financial liability officer for inclusion in the formal financial liability investiga-tion of property loss.
(2) The board will recommend either that the account be audited for a specified period, or that accounting
requirements be waived for a specified period, giving dates.
f. The completed report will be forwarded to the activity, which caused the board to be appointed.
Chapter 9
Offer and Payment of Rewards for the Recovery of Lost Army Property