
7–5. Accounting for durable property
a. Accounting procedures for durable items before issue to the user-level are the same as for nonexpendable and
expendable items.
b. Formal accounting for durable property at the user level is not required. However, because of the nature of these
items, they must be controlled and responsibility assigned as follows:
(1) Durable hand tools that are components of sets, kits, and outfits will be controlled using hand receipt annexes or
component hand receipts, per AR 710–2.
(2) Durable hand tools that are not components of sets, kits, and outfits will be controlled using hand receipts and
sub hand receipts. Tool room or tool crib procedures may be used in lieu of hand receipts and sub hand receipts inaccordance with AR 710–2.
c. Following issue, commanders or heads of activity will have an informal accounting method to record issues and
turn ins to allow monitoring of items other than those contained in the paragraph 7–5 b. Hand receipts and sub hand
receipts are one method of informal accounting.
d. Annually, the commander or the head of the activity will conduct a management review of all durable items
issued or turned-in to determine whether there are any indications of any missing items, and whether there are anyindications of fraud, waste, or abuse.
e. Anytime there are indications of lost, damaged, or destroyed durable property, the commander or the head of the
activity should investigate the loss, damage, or destruction to determine whether corrective measures should be taken tocorrect the deficiency and financial liability should be assessed.
f. The commander or the head of the activity will document that a management review of durable property was
conducted, stating what the results were, and what corrective actions, if any, were taken. Documentation will beprepared in the form of a memorandum for record in duplicate. One copy will be retained at the unit or activity, andone copy provided to the financial liability investigation approving authority. These memorandums for records will beretained on file for 2 years before being destroyed.
g. Durable software will be controlled in accordance with AR 710–2.