
4–8. Procedures
a. Economic analysis. A life cycle economic analysis will be performed to determine the economic preference of
lease versus purchase for all relocatable buildings and/or facilities. This analysis provides the basis to determine themost cost effective or viable option, and will consider all feasible alternatives (for example, lease, purchase, construc-tion of permanent facility, use of commercial space, or use or conversion of existing facilities). Net present valuemeasure will be used for lease versus purchase analysis. CG, IMCOM and/or NGB and ACOM, ASCC, and DRUcommanders will validate economic analyses. An economic analysis is not required if the lease requirement is less than12 months and the lease cost is less than $100,000.
b. Purchase of relocatable building and/or facility as personal property.(1) Approval authority for purchase of relocatable buildings and/or facilities is based on per-building cost. Construc-
tion projects for site preparation for relocatable buildings and/or facilities will be approved in accordance with militaryconstruction authorities based on the total estimated funded project cost. The validated requirement for site preparationmay not be fragmented or met in a piece meal fashion in order to circumvent statutory military construction funding orconstruction approval limitations. The acquisition cost of relocatable buildings and/or facilities is an unfunded construc-tion project cost. The appropriate fund source for purchase of relocatable building and/or facility is determined on a perbuilding basis and is approved separately from construction project approvals in accordance with 10 USC 2851.
(2) Funds made available for operation and maintenance (for example, operation and maintenance, Army (OMA))
will be used for acquisition for purchase of relocatable buildings and/or facilities that are equal to or cost less than theexpense and/or investment limit of $250,000 per building ($100,000 for Army working capital fund (AWCF)).
(3) Funds made available for procurement of equipment (for example, other procurement, Army (OPA)) will be
used for acquisition by purchase of relocatable buildings and/or facilities that cost more than the investment and/orexpense limit of $250,000 per building ($100,000 for AWCF).
(4) Site preparation (foundations, exterior utilities, and other supporting construction) is a funded real property
construction project cost and will be approved and funded using construction funds following construction approvalauthorities.
(5) Costs for packaging and transporting relocatable buildings and/or facilities are unfunded construction project
costs and are paid using the same funds that acquired the relocatable buildings and/or facilities.
(6) Costs of erection and assembly of relocatable buildings are unfunded costs and are paid using the same funds
that acquired the relocatable buildings and/or facilities.
c. Lease of relocatable buildings and/or facilities as personal property.
(1) Approval authority for lease of relocatable buildings and/or facilities is based on the total lease cost and known
or estimated duration of the lease requirement. The term of the lease will not be split to justify lease versus purchase.Renewal and extension of relocatable building and/or facility leases will be considered on the individual merits of therequirement and will be based on an economic analysis that justifies continued lease versus purchase of the relocatablebuildings and/or facilities. The appropriate fund source for lease of relocatable buildings and/or facilities is determinedon a per lease basis. Leases of relocatable buildings and/or facilities are either operating leases or capital leases. Usecapital lease criteria, not negative criteria.
(2) All the criteria listed below must be met for the lease to be considered an operating lease.(a) Ownership of the relocatable building and/or facility remains with the lesser during the term of the lease and is
not transferred to the Government at or shortly after the end of the lease term.
(b) The lease does not contain a bargain-price purchase option.
(c) The lease term does not exceed 75 percent of the estimated economic life of the relocatable building and/or
facility.
(d) The present value of the minimum lease payments (per building lease cost less delivery, sustainment, and
removal) over the lease does not exceed 90 percent of the fair market value of the relocatable building and/or facility atthe beginning of the lease term (per building purchase cost less delivery).
(e) The relocatable building and/or facility is general purpose rather than being for a special purpose of the
Government and is not built to the unique specification of the Government as lessee.
(f) There is a private sector market for the relocatable building and/or facility.
(3) If any one or more of the criteria listed above in paragraphs 4–8 c(2)(a)through 4–8 c(2)(f)are not met, then the
lease is a capital lease.
(4) Construction projects for site preparation for relocatable buildings and/or facilities will be approved in accord-
ance with military construction authorities based on the total estimated funded project cost. The validated requirementmay not be fragmented or acquired in a piece meal fashion in order to circumvent funding or approval limitations.Funded and unfunded construction project costs and the source of funds will be determined according to the followingguidance:
(a) Site preparation (foundations, exterior utilities, and other supporting construction) is a funded project cost.
(b) Costs for packaging and transporting relocatable buildings and/or facilities used for interim requirements are
unfunded project costs and are paid using the same funds that acquired the relocatable buildings and/or facilities.
(c) Costs of erection and assembly of relocatable buildings and/or facilities are unfunded project costs and are paid
using the same funds that acquired the relocatable buildings and/or facilities.
(d) Costs of removal/demolition of relocatable buildings and/or facilities are unfunded project costs.
(5) Sustainment of relocatable buildings and/or facilities will be paid from the same funding account that paid for
the lease or purchase, if allowable within the appropriation guidelines, or from the appropriation supporting installationreal property facilities.
(6) All utilities services (for example, electricity, water, and gas) for relocatable buildingsor facilities will be
separately metered. Operating costs for base operations support services (for example utilities, refuse collection, andcustodial services) will be paid according to existing installation support agreements.