
14–24. Losses in laundries
a. Military personal clothing. Replace military personal clothing that is lost or damaged while in the custody of a
laundry and dry cleaning facility under the provisions of AR 210–130 and AR 700–84. The facility manager willattempt to repair or replace damaged or lost military personal clothing items from surplus stocks. Failing that, thefacility manager will authorize a gratuitous replacement by preparing and approving DA Form 3078.
b. Nonmilitary personal clothing and equipment. When this type of property cannot be satisfactorily replaced from
surplus at the laundry and dry-cleaning facility, the facility manager will list the lost or damaged property on amemorandum. The facility manager will sign and give the completed memorandum to the complainant and direct themto the nearest claims office.
c. Organizational clothing and individual equipment. Account for organizational clothing and individual equipment
lost or damaged while in the custody of a laundry and dry cleaning facility by repairing or replacing the property underthe provisions of AR 210–130. When the facility manager cannot repair or replace the property from surplus stocks tothe satisfaction of the customer, the facility manager will describe the items lost or damaged, and the extent of thedamage, on a memorandum. The facility manager will sign and give the completed memorandum to the complainant.The commander of the complainant will initiate a DD Form 200 to account for the lost or damaged property. When theloss occurs in a contractor operated facility, adhere to the provisions of paragraph 14–13.
d. Articles and equipment not returned by contract laundries and dry cleaners. When ARNG clothing articles and
other military equipment are not returned by contract laundries and dry cleaners, or are returned in a damagedcondition, follow one of the procedures listed below:
(1) Obtain cash payment from the vendor for the monetary value from the FEDLOG of the lost or damaged
property. The USPFO will provide assistance in the collection process.
(2) Process a DD Form 362 prescribed in chapter 12. Attach a brief statement of circumstances in addition to the
normal entries on the form. Substitute the name of the vendor for the individual’s name.