
13–42. Respondent’s rights
a. Members of the Army, employees, and members of other Services having a reciprocal agreement with the Army
may have approved charges of financial liability involuntarily withheld from their Federal pay. For military membersand DOD civilian employees of other military Services, see chapter 14, section V. This also applies to former membersof the Army and civilian employees who have retired prior to a decision being made on the assessment of financialliability. Payment will be taken from the retiree’s retirement pay unless the retiree makes other arrangements forpayment that are acceptable to the Army. Withholdings will be by salary or administrative offset according to 5 USC5514 for civilian employees and 37 USC 1007 for military members. Before individuals are held financially liable, theymust receive notice and the opportunity to exercise their rights, as listed below. Notification of the respondent will beaccomplished by the approving authority using a memorandum (see fig 13–15). The memorandum with a copy of theDD Form 200 with all exhibits will be hand delivered to the person found financially liable. If the individual is notavailable locally, the memorandum will be forwarded by certified mail, return receipt requested. The memorandum willinform the individual that collection efforts will begin 30 calendar days (ARNG 60 calendar days) from the datedelivered or mailed. If respondent exercises their rights described below in paragraphs 13–42 a(3) or paragraph
13–42 a(4), collection actions will be temporarily halted. The memorandum will provide a means for the respondent to
acknowledge receipt. The memorandum (see fig 13–15) will state what rights the respondent has and the time limits forexercising these rights. When a memorandum is returned indicating that the memorandum is not deliverable, theapproving authority need not make further attempts to notify the individual of their rights. The time utilized innotifying respondents of approved charges of financial liability, and of their rights is not counted towards the 75 daysallowed for processing the DD Form 200. Individual rights are to—
(1) Inspect and copy Army records relating to the debt.(2) Obtain free legal advice from the servicing legal assistance office relating to the assessment of financial liability,
as authorized by AR 27–3. Normally this free legal advice is available only to military personnel and DOD civilianemployees.
(3) Request reconsideration of the assessment of financial liability based on legal error. Requests for reconsideration
denied by the approval authority will be forwarded to the appeal authority by the approval authority per paragraph13–44 b and paragraph 13–51 a.
(4) Request a hearing concerning the amount of the debt or the terms of any proposed repayment schedule (civilian
employees only). A request for a hearing will not be submitted until a request for reconsideration concerning theexistence of the debt has been acted on by the appeal authority. A request for a hearing conducted by the FAO and/orUSPFO will be submitted to the servicing FAO and/or USPFO. A respondent who chooses to challenge the existenceof the debt will do so by submitting a request for reconsideration to the approving authority.
(5) Request remission or cancellation of the indebtedness (enlisted personnel only) under the provisions of AR
600–4.
(6) Request extension of the collection period.
(7) Submit an application in accordance with AR 15–185, DD Form 149 (Application for Correction of Military
Record Under the Provisions of Title 10, U.S. Code, Section 1552).
b. Submission of a request for reconsideration, a hearing, or remission or cancellation of indebtedness, stops all
collection action, pending a decision on the request made by the appropriate official.
c. The time constraints shown in figure 13–17 and figure 13–18 apply for the submission of requests for recon-
sideration and hearings. The time constraints in AR 600–4 apply to remission or cancellation of indebtedness. The timeconstraints in AR 15–185 apply to the correction of military records.
d. When time limits in paragraph 13–42 c expire without action by the respondent, the approving authority will
forward the DD Form 200 to the FAO and/or USPFO for collection under cover of a transmittal document requestingacknowledgment of receipt. The approving authority will make initial follow-up to the FAO and/or USPFO within 20calendar days when the FAO and/or USPFO has not acknowledged receipt. Thereafter the approving authority willcontinue to follow-up every tenth day until the FAO and/or USPFO acknowledges receipt of the DD Form 200.
e. Civilians will see their human resource service representative for DD Form 2481 for payroll deduction submis-
sion. They will attach the DD Form 2481 upon receipt of the processed DD Form 2481.
f. When time limits in paragraph 13–42 c expire without action by the respondent, the approving authority will
forward the DD Form 200 to the FAO and/or USPFO for collection under cover of a transmittal document requestingacknowledgment of receipt. The approving authority will make initial follow-up to the FAO and/or USPFO within 20calendar days when the FAO and/or USPFO has not acknowledged receipt. Thereafter the approving authority willcontinue to follow-up every tenth day until the FAO and/or USPFO acknowledges receipt of the DD Form 200.
g. The approving authority will attach a copy of the notification memorandum and FAO and/or USPFO receipt to
the DD Form 200.
Figure 13–15. Sample approving authority’s notification to the respondent that financial liability is being assessed
Figure 13–15. Sample approving authority’s notification to the respondent that financial liability is being assessed–Continued
Figure 13–16. Sample approving authority’s respondent notification of relief from responsibility
Figure 13–17. Time constraints for a military respondent
Figure 13–18. Time constraints for DOD or Army civilian employee respondent