
14–20. Losses of durable and expendable items other than hand tools, components of sets, kits, and
outfits, or organizational clothing and individual equipment
a. Inquiry and approval.(1) Financial liability investigation of property loss appointing authorities may approve the adjustment of durable
and expendable supplies following an inquiry when the loss per incident is less than $5,000, except for the followingitems:
(a) Controlled or sensitive items.
(b) Drugs.
(c) Undenatured alcohol and alcoholic liquors.
(d) Bulk fuels.
(e) Weapons and organizational equipment, including OCIE.
(f) Monetary assets such as cash.
(2) The inquiry will be informal to determine if there is any indication of fraud, waste or abuse and verify if the
situation warrants a more formal investigation-for example, when the loss of small amounts of property occursfrequently enough to suggest a pattern. When no appointing authority has been appointed, the approval will be made bythe approval authority. An inquiry does not require the initiation of a DD Form 200. If the inquiry finds negligence orwillful misconduct, then a DD Form 200 and/or AR 15–6 investigation will be initiated and/or conducted.
b. Memorandum. The unit commander, primary hand receipt holder, or agency head will prepare a memorandum
addressed to the appointing or approving authority in the following format:
(1) List in the subject block: Subject: Request for Property Adjustment Approval, Loss of Durable/Expendable Items
Less than $5,000 per Incident.
(2) Prepare a narrative of the incident. At a minimum, the memorandum will identify what happened, where it
happened, when it happened, how it happened and who was involved.
(3) List the items requiring adjustment by NSN, nomenclature, unit of issue, number of items to be adjusted, unit
price, extended price, and total price. When determining the total cost of the loss for the incident, the depreciated priceshould be used per paragraph b–2 b.
(4) Immediately after the last item, enter the following statement over the signature of the commander: “I have
reviewed the circumstances surrounding the loss of the above items and find no evidence of negligence or willfulmisconduct. Request your approval to adjust these items from accountable records.”
(a) Send the original to the appointing or approving authority for approval.
(b) If approved, file the original in a consolidated file in hand receipt holder sequence and provide copies to all
applicable hand receipt holders and the accountable officer. Retain the file for 2 years. File duplicate copy(s) in theappropriate hand receipt file to support the adjustment action.
(c) If the appointing or approving authority disapproves the request, initiate a DD Form 200.
c. Review criteria. Memorandums used as adjustment documents for losses of durable and expendable items
approved by the appointing authority as prescribed in paragraph 14–20 a will be summarized quarterly (adjustment
documents will be attached to the summary) and forwarded to the financial liability investigation of property lossapproving authority for review. Following the review, the approving authority will sign and return the summary and theattached adjustment documents to the unit commander, primary hand receipt holder, or agency head. If the approvingauthority approved any adjustments rather than an appointing authority, no quarterly review is required.
(1) The approving authority’s review will validate the absence of abuse to this adjustment method.(2) When abuse is suspected, the approving authority will cause an AR 15–6 investigation or a DD Form 200 will
be initiated. Any suspicion of abuse will result in the automatic suspension of this authorization until the appointingauthority is cleared of suspicion.
(3) The approving authority will annotate concurrence or nonconcurrence on the quarterly summary. A copy of the
quarterly summary will be retained on file by the approving authority for 2 years.