
2–8. Responsibility
Responsibility is the obligation of an individual to ensure Government property and funds entrusted to their possession,
command, or supervision are properly used and cared for, and that proper custody, safekeeping, and disposition areprovided.
a. Types of responsibilities. Figure 2–1 shows the different types of responsibility and their relationship to the levels
of command.
(1) Command responsibility. Commanders are obligated to ensure all Government property within their command is
properly used and cared for, and that proper custody, safekeeping, and disposition are provided. Command responsibil-ity is inherent in command and cannot be delegated. It is evidenced by assignment to a command position at any leveland includes the following:
(a) Ensuring the security of all property of the command, whether in use or in storage.
(b) Observing subordinates to ensure their activities contribute to the proper custody, care, use, safekeeping, and
disposition of all property within the command.
(c) Enforcing all security, safety, and accounting requirements.
(d) Taking administrative or disciplinary measures, when necessary.
(2) Supervisory responsibility. The obligation of a supervisor to ensure all Government property issued to, or used
by their subordinates is properly used and cared for, and that proper custody, safekeeping, and disposition are provided.It is inherent in all supervisory positions, is not contingent upon signed receipts or responsibility statements and cannotbe delegated. It arises because of assignment to a specific position and includes the following:
(a) Providing proper guidance and direction.
(b) Enforcing all security, safety, and accounting requirements.
(c) Maintaining a supervisory climate that will facilitate and ensure the proper care and use of Government property.
(3) Direct responsibility. The obligation of a person to ensure all Government property for which they have
receipted, is properly used and cared for, and that proper custody, safekeeping, and disposition are provided. Directresponsibility results from assignment as an accountable officer, receipt of formal written delegation, or acceptance ofthe property on hand receipt from an accountable officer. Commanders or directors of separate TDA activities willdetermine and assign in writing those individuals who will have direct responsibility for property.
(4) Custodial responsibility. The obligation of an individual for property in storage, awaiting issue, or turn-in to
exercise reasonable and prudent actions to properly care for, and ensure proper custody, safekeeping, and disposition ofthe property are provided. Custodial responsibility results from assignment as a supply sergeant, supply custodian,supply clerk, or warehouse person, and is rated by, and answerable directly to, the accountable officer or the individualhaving direct responsibility for the property. Responsibilities include the following:
(a) Ensuring the security of all property stored within the supply room and storage annexes belonging to the supply
room or SSA is adequate.
(b) Observing subordinates to ensure their activities contribute to the proper custody, care, safekeeping, and
disposition of all property within the supply room and storage annexes belonging to the supply room or SSA.
(c) Enforcing all security, safety, and accounting requirements.
(d) When unable to enforce any of these, reporting the problem(s) to their immediate supervisor.
(5) Personal responsibility. The obligation of a person to exercise reasonable and prudent actions to properly use,
care for, safeguard, and dispose of all Government property issued for, acquired for, or converted to a person’sexclusive use, with or without receipt.
b. Responsibility relationships.(1) Command and supervisory responsibility depend on the location of the property within the chain of command.
This responsibility is a part of a job or position and is incurred by assuming that command or supervisory position. Itcannot be delegated.
(2) Direct responsibility is a formal assignment of property responsibility to a person within the supply chain who
has the property within their custody, but not necessarily in their possession or for their use. Accountable officersalways have direct responsibility unless it has been specifically assigned to another person. Accountable officers maydelegate such responsibility by written designation or by issue of the property on a hand receipt.
(3) Personal responsibility always accompanies the physical possession of property.c. Responsibility for public funds. A person who receives or handles public funds has personal responsibility for
safeguarding those funds until they are deposited with a disbursing officer. That person is financially liable for the full
value of the loss of funds when the loss is attributable to their personal negligence or misconduct.