
2–5. Army property in possession of contractors
a. Government property may be furnished to, or acquired by contractors, under the provisions of a contract.
(1) Property provided to a contractor under the terms of a contract assigned or transferred to the Defense Contract
Management Agency for administration remains Army property.
(2) Contractor accountability and responsibility will be as set forth in the contract clause (see Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR)). Army property in the hands of the contractor can be items that have been transferred to thecontractor by the authority of the appointed Government contracting official. In some cases, some Army equipment isconsidered reportable under the terms and conditions of the contract.
(3) If the current contract does not require the contractor to report the on hand Army property, the contract will be
amended to add specific Army reporting requirements.
b. The contracting office that awarded the contract will maintain direct responsibility and control over the property.
The contractor will retain stewardship responsibility for property assigned to them via the contract (see FAR and DOD7000.14–R). Internal and external Army reporting requirements to include but not limited to procedures in DFAS–INRegulation 37–1 and AR 710–3 will be satisfied by use of the data required to be maintained and reported by the FARand/or Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS).
c. When contracts are not assigned to Defense Contract Management Agency and Government-furnished equipment
or Government-furnished property (GFP) is authorized and stipulated in the contract clause the issuing contractingofficer will appoint a property administrator using the evaluation criteria in DFARS to administer, oversee, andmaintain property accountability for the Government-furnished equipment or GFP issued to the contactor.
d. For contracts awarded under FAR Government property clause, accountability for GFP will be transferred to the
contracting office having jurisdiction over the contract; however, the property book office will create and maintain aGFP transfer listing in Property Book Unit Supply-Enhanced which will have authorization quantity and on handquantity on the property book for fiduciary reporting and/or asset visibility purposes.
(1) Property book officers (PBOs), when directed through proper channels by the official having command responsi-
bility over the property required by a contract, will release the Government property to a contractor as GFP. Thetransfer of accountability of property provided to a contractor will be accomplished by using a DD Form 1149(Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document) or DD Form 250 (Material Inspection and Receiving Report) or DDForm 1348–1A (Issue Release/Receipt Document). The document transferring accountability will be approved by thesame contracting office that approved the contract, or the representative, prior to the GFP being provided to the
contractor. PBOs will use the transfer document to establish a GFP asset listing in Property Book Unit Supply-
Enhanced. This asset listing will be used to track visibility of GFP contractor equipment.
(2) A Joint physical inventory of GFP will be conducted by the losing unit or agency and the contractor prior to the
beginning of the contract period. On completion of the inventory and written acknowledgment of receipt by thecontractor via the DD Form 250, DD Form 1149, or DD Form 1348–1A, the PBO will post the transfer document as aloss to the Army’s hand receipt and gain to a contract GFP fiduciary record. A fiduciary record will be the contractorstracking method of accounting for GFP (that is, spreadsheet or designated contractor accounting system). The PBO willcontinue to maintain the basic property book asset record for visibility of GFP transferred to the contractor. Thecontracting office’s designated representative will notify the PBO upon contractor receipt, transfer, or disposal of anyGFP during the life of the contract (see AR 710–2). The PBO will update the fiduciary records as changes to GFP arecommunicated and in accordance with AR 710–2.
(3) Upon termination or completion of the contract, a Joint physical inventory by the contractor and the property
administrator will be accomplished. A transfer document transferring accountability back to the contracting officer and/or property administrator using DD Form 250, DD Form 1149, or DD Form 1348–1A. The contracting officer willreconcile the transfer document for shortages and will approve the transfer prior to the PBO acknowledging receipt andaccepting accountability for the returned GFP. Upon completion of transfer document, the GFP asset listing for thatcontract will be discontinued.
e. For contracts awarded under FAR, accountability for GFP will be laterally transferred on DD Form 1149, per AR
710–2 to the contracting office. The official property records will be maintained by the Government. The contractorwill maintain Stewardship records. These records will be kept separate and distinct from installation property bookrecords. Responsibility for GFP will be assigned to the contractor using the technical exhibit to the contract.
f. Contractor acquired property (CAP) is any property acquired, fabricated, or otherwise provided by the contractor
for performing a contract, and to which the Government has title. CAP that is subsequently delivered and accepted bythe Government for use on the same or another contract is considered GFP. Policy and procedures for accounting forCAP equipment is in accordance with FAR.