
13–14. Disposition of damaged property
The initiator of a DD Form 200 will not dispose of, repair, or continue to use the damaged property until the financial
liability officer (when appointed), appointing authority, or the approving authority, decide it is no longer needed forinvestigative purposes.
a. When damaged property is not needed for investigative purposes, return to service that property considered fit for
service, or make repairable property available for repair.
b. Turn in unserviceable uneconomically repairable property to the supporting supply support activity in accordance
with AR 710–2. Determination of unserviceable uneconomically repairable items based upon an items maintenanceexpenditure limit will be made in accordance with procedures contained in AR 750–1.
c. Dispose of property damaged in shipment as provided in chapter 16 of this regulation.
d. For vehicular accidents resulting in minor damage to the exterior of the vehicle, the approving authority may
allow the continued use of the vehicle when the following actions are accomplished
(1) Damaged vehicle is photographed documenting the damage caused by the accident.(2) Certification obtained from a qualified automotive technician that damage does not prevent the safe use of the
vehicle, and that continued use will not make the damages worse.
(3) Both the photographs and the certification will be attached as exhibits to the DD Form 200 when the
investigation is initiated.
e. For vehicles leased from the GSA or rented from commercial activities that become involved in an accident, the
following applies. The DD Form 200 approving authority may authorize the use of photographs and written estimatedcosts to repair the damaged vehicles, in lieu of the financial liability officer providing a release statement for the repairor turn in of the vehicles. The estimated costs of repairs must be prepared by a qualified technical inspector. Whenpreparing the estimated cost of repair, the technical inspector must identify and document any damage to the vehicle(such as, through photographs), to include damage that existed prior to the accident. When this process is completed,the appropriate motor pool official may release the vehicle for repair or turn-in. The individual initiating the DD Form
200 will attach this documentation to the DD Form 200 as an exhibit. The financial liability officer will rely on this
documentation of damage in lieu of physically examining the damaged vehicle.
Section II
Accountable officer