
13–44. Requests for reconsideration
The approving authority, upon receipt of a request for reconsideration, will review any new evidence offered, and make
a decision to either reverse the previous decision assessing financial liability against the individual or recommend thecontinuation of the assessment of financial liability. A request for reconsideration will be reviewed only on the basis oflegal error (that is, the request must establish that the facts of the case do not support an assessment of financialliability).
a. Relief. When the approving authority determines from new evidence that the individual will be relieved from
financial liability, the approving authority will—
(1) Notify the individual by memorandum that they are relieved from the assessment of financial liability (see fig
13–16 for sample memorandum.) The memorandum will be delivered by hand, or certified mail, return receiptrequested.
(2) Retain the new evidence with the DD Form 200 and file.b. Continuation of financial liability. When the approving authority determines that the assessment of financial
liability will be continued, the approving authority will—
(1) Prepare and sign a memorandum addressing paragraph 13–44(a) through paragraph 13–44(c) to the appeal
authority. The approving authority is not authorized to allow other persons to sign for them (see fig 13–22 for samplememorandum). The approving authority may use an electronic and/or digital signature when the memorandum iselectronically produced.
(a) The memorandum will give the basis for denying the requested relief.
(b) The memorandum will show the dollar amount of financial liability assessed.
(c) If estimated costs were initially used, the actual cost will be included in the memorandum, if available.
(2) Enclose the original DD Form 200 and all exhibits to the memorandum. When the original DD Form 200 is not
available, the approving authority will include a statement in the memorandum explaining why the file is not available.
c. Notification to the individual. On receipt of a response from the appeal authority concerning the relief or
continuation of the assessment of financial liability, the approving authority will notify the individual by memorandum.The memorandum will be delivered by hand, or certified mail, return receipt requested. When financial liability iscontinued the approving authority will notify the individual that they have the right to—
(1) Request a hearing (civilian personnel only).(2) Request remission or cancellation of indebtedness (enlisted personnel only).(3) Request an extension of the collection period, or(4) Submit an application to the ABCMRs.