
13–34. Financial liability recommended
a. Before forwarding the DD Form 200 to the appointing or approving authority, the financial liability officer will
give any individual, against who makes a recommendation to assess financial liability, a chance to examine the DDForm 200 after the findings and recommendations have been recorded on the DD Form 200, and the opportunity tomake a rebuttal statement on their behalf (see para 13–35). The financial liability officer will—
(1) Explain to the individual recommended for a charge of financial liability, the consequences of the recommenda-
tion, if approved.
(2) Explain to the individual the significance of any rebuttal statement submitted by them regarding the possible
assessment of financial liability.
(3) Consider and attach as an exhibit to the DD Form 200 any statement the individual desires to submit.(4) For financial liability investigations of property loss involving LDDT of Government quarters and/or Govern-
ment furnishings and equipment therein, explain to the individual whether a finding of gross negligence was estab-lished and the consequence of a finding of gross negligence.
b. The financial liability officer will notify the individual by memorandum (see fig 13–13) that they have the right—
(1) To inspect and copy Army records relating to the debt.(2) To legal advice as authorized by AR 27–3. Free legal advice from the servicing legal office is normally provided
only to military and DOD civilian employees.
(3) To submit a statement and other evidence in rebuttal of the financial liability officer’s recommendation.c. The financial liability officer will ensure the respondent completes DD Form 200, blocks 16a through 16h. A
copy of the memorandum explaining the individual’s rights will be attached to the DD Form 200 as an exhibit. If morethan one individual is recommended for assessment of financial liability, the financial liability officer will prepare anadditional page for each individual being recommended; containing the data normally placed in blocks 16a–h, andattaches them to the DD Form 200 (see fig 13–2).
d. Anytime an individual elects to sign a statement of charges after a DD Form 200 has been initiated, the DD Form
200 may be cancelled and the statement of charges processed.
Figure 13–13. Sample financial liability officer’s notification to the respondent informing respondent of their intension to
recommend a charge of financial liability