
16–46. Discrepancies in shipments received by overseas ports of debarkation
a. When shipments that move by commercial transportation on GBLs are received at water terminals, they will be
checked carefully with the BL. Make a record of missing or damaged packages by shipment digit marking or other
identifying marks. Packages received in damaged condition will be opened and contents verified if reason exists tobelieve that part of the contents is missing or damaged. Overages, shortages, and damage will be reconciled to thegreatest extent possible through the action of the cargo outturn reconciliation message and its reply. Documentdiscrepancies not reconciled on the cargo outturn reconciliation message and its reply on the DD Form 361 will beannotated and reported.
b. When acting as the transshipment point, the port of debarkation (POD) authority will report on the DD Form 361
the description and weight of missing or damaged cargo along with any incidental costs-that is, direct, indirect, andoverhead, temporary duty, to the ultimate consignee. The ultimate consignee will add any additional informationrequired for completion of the DD Form 361 and report any additional discrepancies found on inspection of theshipment. The consignee will send the DD Form 361 to the POD for processing to the Cargo Outturn ReportingSystem. The POD will consolidate all DD Form 361s received on a single voyage into a Cargo Outturn ReportingSystem package and forward it to the port of embarkation for ultimate submission to the MSC for adjudication. ThePOD will keep a file of DD Form 361 actions for use in responding to the MSC if subsequent questions arise oradditional information is required.
c. When the financial charge is raised or approved by the final action of the commander of an MTMC area
command on a DD Form 200, the officer will send the case to the MSC for collection. However, the officer has limitedresponsibility to—
(1) Request collection from the proper local officer of the MSC.(2) Collect in full or, when more facts support such action, amend the DD Form 200 accordingly, and make
available financial liability investigations of property loss and supporting files (or extracts thereof) to assist the properMSC officer to process the claims. When necessary, the commander of the MTMC area command may return theoriginal of the DD Form 200 to a terminal commander for use by an MSC office. Retain the fifth copy in the file. Thefile at the command will be so annotated.