
14–33. Inventory discrepancies at a central issue facility
a. Inventory discrepancies of OCIE in CIF property book balances discovered during annual or cyclic inventories
will be adjusted and reported using an DA Form 444 except when negligence or willful misconduct is known orsuspected; use one of the adjustment methods cited in paragraphs 12–1 c(1)(a) through 12–1 c(1)(c) of this regulation.
(1) Causative research will be conducted and documented on DA Forms 444 for inventory discrepancies-—(a) Exceeding 
1⁄2 of 1 percent of the combined total of the dollar value of issues and turn-ins (to and from supported
personnel) of a single line since the last inventory.
(b) Exceeding $500 in extended line item value.
(2) DA Forms 444 will be prepared and forwarded to the approving authority within 30 calendar days after
completion of the inventory. The approving authority will take final action on the DA Form 444 within 5 working daysof receipt, or will return the DA Form 444 to the PBO for addition research. When an DA Form 444 is returned forfurther research, 15 days will be allowed for the PBO to do further research. The approving authority may grantextensions of up to a total of 30 additional days. For those entries disapproved by the approving authority, a DD Form200 or AR 15–6 investigation will be initiated for the shortages, and the overages will be turned in to the SSA.
(3) As long as the total adjustments (both gains and losses) for all DA Form 444s do not exceed 21⁄2 percent of the
dollar value of the stockage allowance during the fiscal year, the approval authority for individual DA Forms 444 willbe as follows:
(a) $2,500 or less. Approval authority is the commander who appointed the accountable officer. In a TDA
environment, the commander may delegate approving authority to a division head within the DOL.
(b) Over $2,500, but less than $10,000. Approval authority is the commander who appointed the accountable officer
if the appointing authority is in the grade of lieutenant colonel or above, or is assigned to a position authorized alieutenant colonel or above. In a TDA environment, the commander may delegate approving authority to the DOL.Otherwise, the approving authority will be the first commander in the grade of lieutenant colonel or above in theappointing authority’s chain of command. General officers may delegate, in writing, a lieutenant colonel or above toact as the approving authority.
(c) $10,000 and over. Approval authority is the commander who appointed the accountable officer if the appointing
authority is in the grade of colonel or above, or is assigned to a position authorized a colonel or above. In a TDAenvironment, the commander may delegate approving authority to the DOL. Otherwise, the approving authority will bethe first commander in the grade of colonel or above in the appointing authority’s chain of command. General officersmay delegate, in writing, a colonel to act as the approving authority.
(4) Once the total adjustments (both gains and losses) for the fiscal year exceed 2
1⁄2 percent of the total dollar value
of the stockage allowance, the approval authority for all subsequent DA Forms 444 is the commander who appointedthe accountable officer, if the appointing authority is in the grade of colonel or above. In a TDA environment, thecommander may delegate approving authority to the DOL. Otherwise, the approving authority will be the firstcommander in the grade of colonel or above in the appointing authority’s chain of command. General officers maydelegate, in writing, a colonel to act as the approving authority.
(5) The dollar value of the stockage allowance will be as of the last day of the first month of the fiscal year. This
stockage allowance value will be used for all DA Form 444s during the fiscal year.
(6) Administrative adjustment reports (AARs) will not be included in the totals used to determine the 2
1⁄2 percent
cutoff. These include AARs for discrepancies in makes, models, and sizes.
(7) In the ARNG, the State AG is the approving authority for USPFO DA Form 444s. The State AG may delegate
approval authority to a federally recognized ARNG general officer.
b. ACOM, ASCC, and/or DRU commanders will initiate and conduct oversight management of the inventory
adjustment report process within their commands.
(1) A random sample of no less than 25 percent of those inventory adjustments reports that show physical losses
and/or gains of property processed and approved by subordinate commands will be reviewed quarterly.
(2) The review will be made to determine if the DA Forms 444 approving authorities are properly carrying out their
responsibilities as approving authority, that is, are the decisions made—
(a) Supported by evidence documented in the causative research on DA Forms 444?
(b) Supported by adequate explanation when the quantity or dollar value adjusted is substantially high?
(c) In the best interest of the Army and the Government?
(d) Followed up with corrective actions or directives, as appropriate?