
4–6. Overview
a. This guidance establishes Army policy and procedures for the authorization, acquisition, use, sustainment, and
disposition of relocatable buildings and/or facilities acquired as personal property. It applies to relocatable buildingsand/or facilities on Army-controlled property, Army-purchased, or Army-leased as personal property, regardless of thesource of funds.
b. This guidance does not apply to personal property items that are accountable in organic troop unit allowance lists
such as, table of allowances and table of organization and equipment, tents, portable chemical toilets, and familyhousing.
c. This guidance does not apply to building types and forms that are provided as an integral part of a mobile
equipment item and that are incidental portions of such equipment components, such as medical mobile units,communications vans, or communications trailers.
d. This guidance does not apply to tactical use relocatable buildings and/or facilities that are centrally managed.
e. This guidance does not apply to relocatable structures and/or facilities that are 120 square feet or smaller in
combined floor size that are not connected to real property utilities. These structures will be approved, accounted for,and controlled by IMCOM and/or National Guard Bureau (NGB). Each structure will have a sign displaying with unit,point of contact, phone number and any other information IMCOM and/or NGB requires.
f. This guidance does not apply to relocatable buildings and/or facilities provided and approved as swing space or
support as part of a military construction, Army (MCA) and/or medical military construction (MILCON) project and
the relocatable buildings and/or facilities must be removed immediately upon completion of the MCA and/or medical
MILCON contract. Site and utility support for contractor provided relocatable buildings and/or facilities must belocally approved by the garrison.
g. This guidance does not apply to relocatable buildings provided and approved as swing space or support as part of
an operation and maintenance construction or repair project. The relocatable buildings and/or facilities must beremoved immediately upon completion of the contract. Those relocatable buildings and/or facilities must not be themajor part or main use of the project and are to be used only to support the work of the project. Site and utility supportfor contractor provided relocatable buildings and/or facilities must be locally approved by the garrison.
h. Contractor-owned relocatable buildings and/or facilities provided for contract administration do not require
approval under this policy and must be removed upon completion of the contract. Site and utility support for contractorprovided relocatable buildings and/or facilities must be locally approved by the garrison.
i. This guidance does not apply to tents that are purchased or leased, are not part of a TDA or table of organization
and equipment, and are not connected to real property utilities. Sprung type shelters and similarly constructed structuresare not considered tents.