
13–52. Appeal authority
a. Definition. An Army officer or DA civilian employee in the grade of GS–15 in a supervisory position designated
to take final action on requests for reconsideration when the financial liability investigation approving authority deniesrelief of financial liability against an individual, and to act on requests for remission or cancellation of indebtedness.
(1) Normally, the appeal authority will be the next higher commander or DA civilian employee in the chain of
command or supervision above the approving authority. When the approval authority is the garrison commander, the
IMCOM region director will be the appeal authority. Individuals having approving authority that delegates it to
subordinate personnel per paragraph 13–17 a, cannot be an appeal authority. Appeal authority must be at a command or
supervisory level above the approving authority level.
(2) The persons listed below may delegate appeal authority, for financial liability investigations of property loss
arising from organizations that fall under their command or supervision. Individuals designated must be in the grade ofCOL or above, or be an SES employee, and be senior in time-in-grade to the approving authority. This provision doesnot apply to the ARNG. In the ARNG, the AG is the appeal authority for financial liability investigations of propertyloss. This authority may be delegated to the Deputy AG only. In cases of State liability the CNGB will act as appealauthority.
(a) Heads of HQDA staff agencies.
(b) ACOM, ASCC, DRU, and commanders of life cycle management commands.
(c) Heads of unified commands.
(d) Corps, division, and installation commanders.
(3) For financial liability investigations of property loss containing assessment of financial liability against a general
officer or SES employee, the appeal authority will be the next general officer or SES employee senior to the approvingauthority in the chain of command.
(4) For financial liability investigations containing an assessment of a final loss of $100,000 or greater or a final loss
of a controlled item, the appeal authority will be the next general officer or SES employee senior to the approvingauthority in the rating chain unless designated otherwise by a support agreement.
(5) The appeal authority may not act as both the approving and appeal authority. Also, a person who has had
personal responsibility or accountability for the property listed on a DD Form 200, will not act as an appeal authority.In such cases the next higher commander will be the appeal authority.
b. Appeal authority actions on a request for reconsideration.(1) Prior to reviewing a request for reconsideration the appeal authority will forward the request to a legal advisor
under the appeal authority’s command. The lawyer performing the legal review required by the appeal authority mustnot have conducted the legal review for the approving authority or provided legal advice to the individual heldfinancially liable. The appeal authority will require the legal advisor to review the approving authority’s memorandumand all related documentation and give a written opinion as to its legal sufficiency. If, in the opinion of the legaladvisor, the approving authority’s action is legally insufficient, the legal advisor will state the reasons why and makeappropriate recommendations. The opinion will be attached to the request for reconsideration before the appealauthority’s review.
(2) Review requests for reconsideration only on the basis of legal error. That is, the request must establish that the
facts of the case do not support an assessment of financial liability.
(3) Review requests for reconsideration to determine if the evidence, to include any new evidence offered by the
respondent, provides grounds to relieve them from financial liability. After review, the appeal authority may—
(a) Direct the approving authority to reopen the financial liability investigation and conduct further investigation to
clarify matters specified by the appeal authority.
(b) Grant relief of financial liability in whole or in part based on the facts and evidence contained in the file. Direct
the approving authority to reopen the financial liability investigation, to reverse an assessment of financial liability, andto arrange for repayment of collections erroneously received.
(c) Deny relief of financial liability to the individual.
(4) After review and decision by the appeal authority, the DD Form 200 with all exhibits will be returned to the
approving authority for action under a formal memorandum (see fig 13–22). Memorandum will state action taken, withinstructions directing that the individual is to be informed of the action taken. If the appeal authority grants relief fromfinancial liability, the memorandum will direct repayment of any monies erroneously collected. The appeal authoritywill retain a copy of the memorandum on which their decision is recorded. The appeal authority’s actions will beaccomplished within 45 calendar days of receipt of request for reconsideration.
(5) The appeal authority is allowed to reverse financial liability charges. If during the review of the computation of
financial liability, error is discovered, the appeal authority will correct the error, if the amount assessed is more thanshould have been assessed. The appeal authority is not allowed to assess financial liability against a new individual. Ifthe appeal authority concludes from their review of the case that new financial liability may be appropriate, the appealauthority may direct the approving authority to reopen the case.
f. Appeal authority’s review of requests for remission or cancellation of indebtedness. Authority to take final action
on requests for remission or cancellation of indebtedness is restricted to the CG, AHRC. When the appeal authorityreceives such a request, a review will be made under the provisions of AR 600–4 (see para 13–46).
Chapter 14
Special Procedures
Section I
Exceptions to Policy Contained in Chapter 13