
11–4. Roles
a. The DCS, G–4 will—
(1) Prescribe overall guidance establishing and monitoring the CSDP.(2) Coordinate with the Army Staff and other agencies to develop policy and/or resolve policy problems (that is,
Deputy Chief of Staff, G–1 assistance to improve personnel aspects of supply management).
(3) Conduct periodic reviews and updates of the program.(4) Provide ACOM, ASCC, and/or DRU coordinators with periodic program updates.b. Commanders of proponents for schools will—
(1) Modify present blocks of instruction on supply management to include CSDP. No additional program of
instruction time is authorized.
(2) Continually improve and update supply training at all levels.c. The CG, AMC will—
(1) Establish and implement a CSDP consistent with DA policy addressing the national level of the supply system.(2) Conduct periodic reviews and updates of the national portion of the CSDP.(3) Coordinate with the DCS, G–4 to resolve policy problems.d. The CG, U.S. Army Combined Arms Support Command will provide for the development and maintenance of
retail supply systems that implement retail supply policy. This does not include those retail systems unique to AMC.
e. ACOM, ASCC, and/or DRU and equivalent commanders will establish an aggressive CSDP within their respec-
tive commands by—
(1) Appointing a CSDP coordinator.(2) Ensuring the CSDP is implemented by all subordinate elements.(3) Initiating intra-service support agreements, if desired, as explained in paragraph 11–6 e of this regulation.
(4) Providing recommended changes to the CSDP to the DCS, G–4 (DALO–SUS).(5) Adding to the program, when necessary, to account for any uniqueness within their command.f. Subordinate commanders (excluding company, battery, and troop) will—
(1) Implement an aggressive CSDP by using existing assets (that is, chain of command, organizations, or programs)
to avoid duplication or fragmentation of effort. The commanders’ designated asset will then incorporate CSDP intotheir evaluation plans and procedures.
(2) Provide the necessary emphasis to ensure the success of the CSDP.(3) Appoint, in writing, a senior logistician in the headquarters as the CSDP monitor.(4) Recognize both superior and inferior performance regarding supply discipline.(5) Use the results of the CSDP evaluations to determine candidates for the Army Supply Excellence Award
Program (see AR 710–2).
g. Immediate supervisors and company, battery, and troop commanders will—
(1) Review the requirements listing within the CSDP in order to become familiar with the applicable regulatory
requirements (see AR 710–2).
(2) Use the listing as a guide in the routine performance of their duties.(3) Report to their immediate higher headquarters any applicable requirements within the listing that cannot be
completed.
Section II
Program Guidance