
14–4. Discrepancies involving persons carried on the rolls, but not present
a. Death, desertion, or insanity requiring property settlement. When death, desertion, or insanity requires a property
settlement (other than personal clothing), prepare a DD Form 200 for the missing or damaged property.
b. Assessment of financial liability.(1) Death. When an assessment of financial liability against a deceased military member or DOD civilian employee
is appropriate, the approving authority will write or type the word “deceased” on DD Form 200, block 14b. Theapproved DD Form 200 will not be forwarded to the FAO, USPFO, or the surviving relatives of the deceased. A copyof the approved DD Form 200 assessing financial liability against a deceased individual will be forwarded under atransmittal memorandum to the installation claims office for adjudication under the provisions of AR 27–20. Whenacknowledgment of receipt is not received by the approving authority within 20 calendar days, the approving authoritywill initiate a follow-up to the claims office. Follow-ups will continue to be sent every 10th day until receipt by theinstallation claims office is acknowledged.
(2) Desertion or insanity. When an assessment of financial liability against a military member that has been dropped
from the roles or a military member or DOD civilian employee that has been declared insane is appropriate, theliability notification procedures in paragraphs 13–34 and paragraph 13–42 are waived. A legal opinion is still requiredto substantiate the financial liability assessment before final approval.
c. Active Army. When financial liability is assessed against a military member or DOD civilian employee who is
alive but who is no longer in the military or employed by the Federal Government, a copy of the completed DD Form200, with all exhibits, will be forwarded, under a memorandum, to the servicing FAO or USPFO for inclusion in therespondent’s permanent finance record. The memorandum will request the DD Form 200 be forwarded to therespondent’s unit or place of employment in case they return to Government control.
d. U.S. Army Reserve. When financial liability is assessed against a military member, a copy of the completed DD
Form 200 will be mailed to Army Reserve Personnel Center, 9700 Page Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63132–5200, forinclusion in the respondent’s permanent records.
e. Distribution. Place copies of completed DD Form 200 in the member’s permanent records.
f. Property authorized under CTA 50–900. Property authorized under CTA 50–900 will not be listed on financial
liability investigations of property loss for Active Army personnel (see DA Pam 600–8). Reserve components will useDD Form 200 to account for losses of property authorized under CTA 50–900.