
4–9. Management of relocatable buildings and/or facilities
a. General. Relocatable buildings and/or facilities can be purchased or leased and is to be used for predefined, short
term periods of time. Relocatable buildings and/or facilities are designed to be readily moved, erected, disassembled,stored, and reused. The normal life expectancy of a relocatable building and/or facilities is 15 years. A useful lifeexpectancy greater than 15 years must be documented with manufacturer certificates, warranties, or memorandum.
b. Modular and pre-engineered buildings. Modular and pre-engineered buildings are not relocatable buildings and/or
facilities because modular and pre-engineered buildings are designed to be used as permanent buildings and wouldusually incur excessive costs and possible damage if relocated. These buildings must be acquired following realproperty acquisition rules.
c. Approved period of use. All relocatable buildings and/or facilities have a specified approved period of use. The
lease contract term will not exceed the approved period of use. The approved period of use for a relocatable buildingwill begin upon beneficial occupancy of the building.
d. Accountability and/or property book records. All relocatable buildings and/or facilities (both owned and leased)
will be accounted for on garrison property book records as equipment to comply with personal property and PublicLaw 101–576 data reporting requirements. In addition to recording relocatable buildings and/or facilities in the personalproperty records, relocatable buildings and/or facilities should be recorded in the real property database of record withan “RELO” code in order to be used for future requirements forecasting.
e. Cross-leveling or disposal. The IMCOM and/or NGB will maintain and review biannually the relocatable
building and/or facility disposal plan.
(1) Once the interim requirement has been met (that is, either the surge diminishes or the permanent construction is
finished), the relocatable building and/or facility needs to be either removed by the contractor (if leased), cross-leveled
by IMCOM and/or NGB to a new location, or disposed of in accordance with standard property procedures (see this
regulation).
(2) Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Installations and Housing) approval is required prior to an Army-
owned relocatable building and/or facility being cross-leveled to a different use, regardless of whether the relocatablebuildings and/or facilities remain on the original installation or are cross-leveled to a new location.
(3) If the relocatable building and/or facility has met or exceeded its estimated economic life (15 years under normal
circumstances), the building should be removed from the installation property books and turned in to DLA DispositionService Office for sale or disposal.