
16–38. Step 6–General distribution
a. After approval, the appointing and approving authority will distribute the original and copies of the DD Form 361
along with DD Form 200. The distribution specified in paragraphs 16–38 b and 16–38 c applies to all shipments other
than from the AWCF, DLA, GSA, and other than to and from overseas.
b. An examination of the DD Form 361 may show that a question exists concerning the liability of a vendor,
contractor, freight handler, or commercial warehouse under contract to the Army, and that liability of the carrier hasnot been ruled out. If so, distribute the DD Form 200 as follows:
(1) The original, with exhibits attached, is forwarded to the officer who administers the contract involved for
shipments made to fill military standard requisitioning and issue procedures requisitions (see AR 725–50). Route to thecontracting officer through the supply sources to which requisitions was originally submitted.
(2) The second copy is forwarded to the receiving accountable property officer.(3) The third copy is forwarded to the installation FAO. The FAO may use it as a supporting document in setting up
an accounts receivable (Account 1100), when required.
(4) The fourth copy is forwarded to the officer who administers the contract. The original of the DD Form 200 (see
para 16–38 b(1)) will be included. No letter of transmittal is required with the distribution of any copy.
(5) Provide a copy to the cognizant Surface Deployment and Distribution Command area commands.c. If there is no question as to the liability of a vendor, fixed-priced contractor, freight handler, or commercial
warehouse under contract to the Army, distribute the DD Form 200 as follows:
(1) The original, with exhibits, forward directly to the Defense Finance and Accounting Service-Indianapolis Center
(DFAS–IN–FTF), Indianapolis, IN 46249–5301 (CONUS carrier liability only).
(2) Second copy is forwarded to the cognizant Military Traffic Management Command (MTMC) area command.(3) The third copy is forwarded to the receiving accountable officer.(4) The fourth copy is forwarded to the installation FAO. The FAO may use it as a supporting document in setting
up an accounts receivable (Account 1100), when required.
(5) The fifth copy is forwarded to DFAS level with the original of the report.(6) The sixth copy may be returned to the officer who prepared the report. No letter of transmittal is required for the
distribution of any copy.
d. After DFAS takes the final action, DFAS will specially arrange return of the fourth copy to the originating
installation and for file in the headquarters file.
e. At transshipping activities, when the transportation of the military services or military agencies (including Federal
agencies) property is handled as a reciprocal service for the other, the initiating and processing of DD Form 361s forreporting purposes and financial liability investigations of property loss will be regarded as a part of such services.Transshipping activities include water terminals, aerial ports, break-bulk activities, and container consolidation points.