
10–4. Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps bonding and/or insurance
a. Institutions of secondary education hosting a Junior ROTC (JROTC) unit must post a bond, or provide proof of
suitable insurance in lieu of posting a bond, for the care and safekeeping of all property as stipulated in theirapplication and agreement for the establishment of a JROTC unit, as recorded on DA Form 3126 (Application andContract for Establishment of a Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Unit) under the provisions of AR 145–2. Theamount of the bond or insurance will be a minimum of $5,000. When the amount needed to compensate the Army forGovernment property issued to the institution that may become lost, damaged, or destroyed is greater than $5,000, theamount of the bond or insurance will be increased to that amount. The bond or insurance policy must name the Armyas the beneficiary for the amount needed to replace the lost, damaged, or destroyed Government property. Governmentproperty includes all nonexpendable property accounted for under the provisions of AR 710–2, to include uniformsstored by the institution. It does not include uniforms issued to cadets, expendable articles, and supplies expended inoperation, maintenance, or instruction.
b. Proof of suitable insurance in lieu of a bond may be an affidavit on school or board of education letterhead with
the signature of the principal or similar authority to the effect that all Government property used by the JROTC
program is covered by the school’s insurance policy.
c. Schools that are self-insured may also provide an affidavit to the effect that the school accepts financial
responsibility for all Government property used by the JROTC unit. Schools with a history of causing the Governmentunrecoverable losses may be required to post a bond, as determined by the ROTC region commander or the Army’smajor overseas area commander having authorized the Army JROTC unit under their jurisdiction.
d. The Secretary of the Army delegates to ROTC region commanders, and Army major overseas area commanders
having authorized JROTC units under their jurisdiction, the authority to determine the amount of the bond or insurancerequired, and the financial responsibility of the institution. All such determinations by these commanders will be made“For the Secretary of the Army” on the basis of the standards in paragraph 10–4 a through paragraph 10–4 c. Any case
not clearly falling within these standards will be forwarded through command channels to AHRC (AHRC–OPD–C),1600 Spearhead Division Avenue Fort Knox, KY 40122–5405 for action by the Secretary of the Army (see exemptreport, AR 335–15).
e. ROTC region commanders and Army major overseas area commanders having authorized JROTC units under
their jurisdiction will review the bonds and insurance affidavits in force at least once every 3 years to ensure theirconformance with the standards prescribed in paragraph 10–4 a through paragraph 10–4 c. Institutions will be required
to furnish the reports and statements necessary for the ROTC region commanders to make a property review.
Section II
Other Accounting Procedures