
13–17. Criteria
a. The approving authority is defined as an Army officer or DA civilian employee authorized to appoint a financial
liability officer and to approve financial liability investigations of property loss.
(1) In most cases for Army garrisons, garrison commanders will be the approving authority for financial liability
investigations of property loss arising within their command or under their supervision. The minimum grades forapproving authorities are shown in paragraphs 13–17 a and paragraph 13–17 b.
(2) For DD Form 200 containing recommendations affecting general officers or SES employees, the next general
officer or SES employee in the chain of command senior to the general officer or SES employee being recommendedfor assessment of, or relief from, financial liability becomes the approving authority.
(3) For financial liability investigations assessing a final loss of $100,000 or greater, or loss of a controlled item, the
approving authority permitted to sign the DD Form 200 will be the first general officer or SES employee in the chainof command. This authority cannot be delegated.
(4) For financial liability investigations assessing a final loss of $100,000 or greater, or loss of a controlled item,
officers in the grade of O–6 with a promotable status are permitted to sign the DD Form 200 as the approving authorityon behalf of the commanding general. This authority cannot be delegated.
(5) For financial liability investigations assessing a final loss of $100,000 or greater, or loss of a controlled item,
officers in the grade of O–6 assigned as the deputy commander to the commanding general, are permitted to sign theDD Form 200 as the approving authority on behalf of the commanding general. This authority cannot be delegated.
(6) The appointing authority is an officer or civilian employee designated by the approving authority with responsi-
bility for appointing financial liability officers. The minimum grades of appointing authorities are shown in paragraphs13–17 d(1) through 13–17 d(3).
(7) The approving authority will normally be senior to the appointing authority. The approving authority for DD
Form 200 is also the approving authority for inventory adjustment reports for inventory discrepancies at stock recordaccounts.
b. Active Army and U.S. Army Reserve. Army officers in command positions in the grade of colonel or above, DA
civilian employees in supervisory positions in the grade of GS–15, chiefs of HQDA staff agencies, and ACOM, ASCC,and/or DRU commanders are approving authorities for financial liability investigations of property loss arising withintheir command or under their supervision. Commanders in the grade of colonel (COL) or above, chiefs of HQDA staffagencies, and ACOM, ASCC, and/or DRU commanders may delegate approving authority to an Army officer in the
grade of COL or above, or a DA civilian employee in the grade of GS–15. If a command or agency is not headed by
an Army officer in the grade of COL or above or a DA civilian employee in a supervisory position in the grade ofGS–15, the approval authority will be the first individual in the chain of supervision or support agreement who soqualifies. Approving authorities in the rank of COL (O–6) and/or GS–15 or above may delegate, in writing, approvingauthority to an Army officer in the rank of LTC (O–5) for financial liability investigations assessing a final loss of$5,000.00 or less that do not include equipment classified as COMSEC. sensitive items, and/or equipment that containspersonal identification information (PII).
c. Army National Guard. Commanders in the grade of COL (federally recognized) are authorized to be appointed as
the approving authority for financial liability investigations of property loss arising within their command. TheDirector, Army National Guard (DARNG) or designated representative may authorize an adjutant general to delegate orappoint in writing a COL assigned to a command billet awaiting federal recognition to be appointed as an approvingauthority. The USPFO in their respective State will be the final reviewing authority for all financial liability investiga-tions in all cases except those involving general officers or probable State liability. Where there is probable generalofficer involvement or State liability, the Assistant Chief, National Guard Bureau (NGB–ZC) or their designatedrepresentative will act as the appointing, approving, and reviewing authority. The DARNG or their designatedrepresentative (Chief, NGB–ARL) may authorize the adjutant grade of lieutenant colonel (LTC). Approving authoritiesin the rank of COL (O–6) and/or GS–15 or above may delegate, in writing, approving authority on an Army officer inthe rank of LTC (O–5) for financial liability investigations assessing a final loss of $5,000.00 or less that do notinclude equipment classified as COMSEC, sensitive items, and/or equipment that contains PII.
Note. This allows the Adjutant Generals to get permission from the Chief, NGB–ARL to appoint lieutenant colonels (O–5) as
appointing and approving officials in the absence of a COL (O–6).
d. Appointing authority (Active Army and U.S. Army Reserve). The appointing authority is an officer or civilian
employee designated by the approving authority with responsibility for appointing financial liability officers. Theminimum grades of appointing authorities are shown in paragraphs 13–17 d(1) through 13–17 d(3). Commanders,
directors, chiefs of HQDA staff agencies, ACOM, ASCC, and/or DRU commanders in the grade of COL or above orGS–15 may designate individuals to act as appointing authorities using informal memorandum with copies provided toall affected subordinate commanders and/or supervisors. Individuals designated must be—
(1) LTC or major (MAJ) filling an LTC billet or paragraph 13–17 d(5).
(2) A DOD civilian employee GS–13 or above, a GS–12 filling a GS–13 position on the personnel authorization
document above.
(3) When a general officer or SES is the approving authority for loss or damage of $100,000 or a loss of controlled
item, the appointing authority will be the first COL in chain.
( 4 )  W i t h i n  A M C ,  a  M A J  s e r v i n g  a s  a  c o m m a n d e r  o f  a  d e p o t  a c t i v i t y  n o t  c o  - l o c a t e d  w i t h  i t s  n e x t  h i g h e r
headquarters.
(5) The DARNG or designated representative (Chief, NGB–ARL) may authorize the adjutant grade of LTC.e. Delegation of approving authority.(1) Active Army and U.S. Army Reserve. General officers in command positions who do not have subordinate
commanders, general officers with subordinate commanders below the rank of COL, general officers who are chiefs ofHQDA staff agencies, and ACOM, ASCC, and/or DRU commanders may delegate approving authority for financialliability investigations of property loss. Delegation must be in writing. Individual’s delegated approving authority forfinancial liability investigations of property loss must be an Army officer in the grade of COL or above, or be a DAcivilian employee in a supervisory position in the grade of GS–15 or above. In addition, they must be a member of thegeneral’s command or staff.
(2) Army National Guard. The AG may delegate approval authority to LTCs occupying COL command billets and
awaiting Federal recognition to COL. General officers in command positions who do not have subordinate commandersmay delegate in writing approval authority to member(s) of their staff. Individual(s) delegated must be a federallyrecognized COL or above. The DARNG or designated representative may authorize the AG to delegate or appoint inwriting approval authority to member(s) of their staff in the grade of COL or above. The AG may designate acentralized approval authority for some or all commands in the State. Such designees must be senior to all of thecommanders over whom approval authority is exercised, and such centralization will not preclude exercising appealauthority within the State. Such designation carries with it all of the responsibilities of an approval authorityenumerated elsewhere in this regulation. These responsibilities may not be split or further delegated.