
12–5.  Test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment  
a.  Medical special -purpose TMDE is medical materiel used specifically for the test, calibration, and re-
pair of medical equipment. TMDE does not include ite ms used to diagnose or treat patients.  
b.  As the AMEDD TMDE manager, USAMMA will manage, direct, and control the AMEDD special -pur-
pose TMDE Program.  
(1)  U.S. Army Medical Materiel Development Activity ( USAMMDA) will provide life cycle management 
for all type classified medical special -purpose TMDE in support of TOE medical organizations. Special -
purpose TMDE life cycle management includes the acquisition, approval, repair, calibration, and the mod-
ernization of special -purpose TMDE.  
(2)  All TMD E will be calibrated in accordance with calibration intervals specified in TB 43  –  180. 
(3)  TMDE required by the AMEDD Army school curriculum to prov ide individual training will not require 
cyclic calibration unless training efficiency or safety is adversely affected. U.S. Army Medical Command 
policy specifies that all general -purpose TMDE and special -purpose TMDE used in AMEDD school train-
ing cours es will be calibrated.  
 
(4)  U.S. Army Medical Materiel Center –Europe is the designated alternate source to provide repair and 
calibration support services for type classified medical special -purpose TMDE within the European Com-
mand.  
(5)  USAMMA Medical M aintenance Operations Divisions, Tracy, CA and U.S. Army Medical Materiel 
Center –Europe activities providing special -purpose TMDE Calibration and Repair Support will establish 
and maintain an instrument master record file.  
c.  Non-type classified medical special -purpose TMDE support will be accomplished as follows:  
(1)  All special -purpose TMDE owners or users will perform operator level maintenance.  
(2)  Special -purpose TMDE repair and calibration support will be obtained in accordan ce with TB 
43  –  180 or by contract maintenance support.  
(3)  Special -purpose TMDE calibration intervals are specified in TB 43  –  180 or manufacturer instruc-
tions.  
d.  Units are responsible to validate current requirements with on -hand TMDE.  
(1)  Coordina tion must be done with the USAMMA and the TMDE support center to ensure that excess 
or obsolete TMDE has proper disposition.  
(2)  Commanders will coordinate through Army Futures Command ( AFC) and TRADOC  (U.S. Army 
Combined Arms Support Command) for requests to modify or change TOE documents and forward to the 
DCS, G  –  3/5/7 Organizational Integrator for review by DCS, G  –  3/5/7 (DAMO). Requests for changes to 
TDA documents will be made by using the A utomated 4610 TDA Equipment Request Tool in the Force 
Management System Website (FMSWeb).  
e.  The Medical Center of Excellence Fielded Force Integration Directorate and USAMMDA ILS Manag-
ers must confirm the BOIP for all LIN special -purpose TMDE requi rements.  