
4–19.  Private enterprise  
a.  When the Army maintenance system cannot provide required support, the Army will rely on the do-
mestic and foreign competitive private enterpr ise system to support its maintenance requirements.  
b.  The ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs will ensure that essential quality requirements for maintenance 
service contracts are defined, quantified, measured, and assessed during the contracted -out support pro-
cess. Solicitations and contracts for maintenance services will require:  
(1)  Quantitative measures of quality and performance.  
(2)  Contractors to submit historical data that will show the capability to achieve these quantitative 
measures. These data are use d in the solicitation review process.  
(3)  Specific contractual provisions for obtaining contractor conformance, such as award and incentive 
fee provisions for meeting performance quality and cost standards.  
(4)  Test and evaluation to be performed to demo nstrate performance and corrective actions to be 
taken on deficiencies revealed.  
(5)  For medical equipment, only AMC can authorize contract maintenance to support an MTOE unit.  
c.  Commanders contracting for commercial field or sustainment repair of equ ipment will ensure that 
the contract requirements package include provisions for collection of work order DA Form 2407 data 
from the contractor. Contractors will provide negotiated and/or approved data via TELS to the Enterprise 
Logistics Portal maintenance master.  
d.  The MATDEV  will ensure any contract requirement package for commercial application of author-
ized and approved MWOs will include provisions that MWOs will be applied and reported in accordance 
with AR 750  –  10. 
e.  All contracting support is requested by submittin g a requirements package to the contracting office 
in accordance with AR 715  –  9. The requirements package includes the PWS, Government cost estimate, 
and QA surveillance plan in addition to other documentation.  
f.  Only contracting officers may prepare  contracts.  
g.  The requiring activity is responsible for nominating a contracting officer representative in accordance 
with AR 715  –  9. 
h.  In the event of contractor deficiencies or noncompliance with the terms of the contract, the contract-
ing officer r epresentative should document and communicate the deficiencies to the contracting officer for 
corrective action.  
i.  All contracts must be administered in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation ( FAR).  