
14–22.  Nuclear Hardness Maintenance and Hardness Surveillance Program  
a.  Objective.   The objective of the Nuclear HM/HS Program is to ensure the su rvivability of mission crit-
ical systems to the effects of nuclear weapons; to protect the investment made in hardening systems; and 
to ensure compliance with DoDI 3150.09, which directs the Secretary of the Army to “Ensure an Nuclear 
HM/HS Program is est ablished and maintained for those CBRN mission critical systems that are hard-
ened for nuclear survivability.”  
b.  Applicability.  
(1)  The Nuclear HM/HS Program applies to those systems that are identified as mission critical by their 
capabilities documen ts, that have nuclear survivability requirements, and that incorporate hardening to 
meet those requirements, in accordance with DoDI 3150.09. The U.S. Army Nuclear and Combating 
Weapons of Mass Destruction Agency maintains the list of Army mission critica l systems with nuclear 
hardness requirements.  
(2)  The systems hardness are the aspects of the system that protect it from initial nuclear weapons ef-
fects, including high -altitude electromagnetic pulse, initial nuclear radiation, blast, and thermal radiati on. 
(3)  This maintenance policy is independent of hardness assurance.  
c.  Program policy.  
 
(1)  Hardness maintenance is a unit responsibility. Effective nuclear hardness maintenance depends on 
proper maintenance in accordance with a system’s TMs. Hardness  maintenance begins with routine 
PMCS. MATDEVs will develop checks and services requirements and ensure they are included in mis-
sion critical systems’ TMs.  
(2)  Hardness surveillance is the responsibility of the MATDEV. Hardness surveillance will be co n-
ducted while the system is located at depot maintenance and inspected by a U.S. Army Test and Evalua-
tion Command ( ATEC) engineer. Hardness maintenance service checks must be completed before any 
standard maintenance work is done. The intent of hardness s urveillance is to monitor the hardness 
maintenance program and ensure the system’s integrity remains intact through its life cycle. Hardness 
surveillance will be based on a portion of the fielded fleet.  
d.  Responsibilities.  
(1)  The MATDEV will — 
(a)  Ensure that nuclear hardness maintenance checks and services are incorporated into a system’s 
TMs. These checks and services include but are not limited to ensuring wire casings are serviceable, criti-
cal items are properly grounded, and electrical connection s are free of corrosion.  
(b)  Ensure that detailed life cycle HM/HS Programs are incorporated into the supportability strategy 
(SS), in accordance with DA Pam 700  –  127. In the SS, include maintenance concepts, requirements, and 
procedures for nuclear HM/HS procedures to assure the nuclear hardness of the system throughout its 
life cycle. Maintenance actions, replacement of parts, modifications and other life cycle changes require  a 
reassessment of the system’s vulnerability.  
(c)  Include life cycle surveillance and maintenance of electromagnetic environmental effects shielding 
or hardening features in the ILS assessment and planning processes, in accordance with DA Pam 70  –  3. 
The MATDEV will consider the following in support of HM/HS planning: maintenance planning, technical 
data, training and training support, computer resources support, and design interface. Equipment tech-
nical publications will delineate and describe nuclea r HM/HS requirements.  
(d)  Verify HM/HS maintenance procedures and review the technical publications during the logistics 
demonstration, in accordance with DoD 3235.2  –  R. The MATDEV will incorporate HM and/or HS into lo-
gistics demonstration testing. I mplement maintenance test, evaluation, and demonstration requirements 
through the ILS process in AR 700  –  127. Summarize the logistics demonstration requirements system’s 
Test and Evaluation Master Plan in accordance with DA Pam 700  –  127. 
(e)  Coordina te with AMC to plan, program, and budget for HM/HS requirements as part of the life cycle 
cost estimate in accordance with DA Pam 70  –  3. 
(2)  CAPDEV, in coordination with the MATDEV, will prepare the SS during the initial phase of drafting 
the CDD in accordance with DA Pam 700  –  56. The SS ensures that only support analysis tailored to the 
program needs are accomplished for development of ILS element requirements and constraints and to 
identify the s upportability design requirements. This information must be consistent with the ILS infor-
mation contained in the initial capabilities document.  
(3)  AMC will — 
(a)  Coordinate with MATDEVs to ensure sufficient funds and personnel are budgeted and allocat ed for 
HM/HS.  
(b)  Incorporate hardness surveillance into depot -level maintenance for mission critical systems.  
(c)  Integrate into existing quality control procedures.  
(4)  ATEC will — 
(a)  Provide technicians to AMC upon request to support hardness sur veillance.  
(b)  Set up a schedule in coordination with AMC for inspection of vehicles at depot maintenance.  
(5)  Chief, USAR; CNGB; and ACOM, ASCC, DRU commanders will — 
(a)  Ensure hardness maintenance inspections, in accordance with a system’s TMs, are incorporated 
into unit maintenance.  
(b)  Ensure maintenance personnel are trained in nuclear hardness maintenance.  
Chapter 15  
Equipment Reset  