
6–4.  Aviation field maintenance  
The field maintenance operation is resident in each aviation brigade.  
a.  An aviation support company within an aviation support battalion ( ASB) is organic to each aviation 
brigade and will — 
(1)  Perform forward sustainment maintenance f or selected high -value components and subassemblies 
under the authority of the assigned logistics engineer and or applicable maintenance engineering call.  
(2)  Perform authorized field maintenance as defined in paragra ph 6–3d that was formerly classified as 
unit and intermediate maintenance (current terminology in aviation TMs) in the applicable MAC.  
(3)  Have appropriate resources (both the personnel and equipment) to perform field maintenance.  
(4)  Have appropria te resources to support operational battalions with aviation support platoons.  
b.  The flight companies and/or flight troops and aviation maintenance companies/aviation maintenance 
troops will — 
(1)  Perform authorized field maintenance as defined in paragraph 6 –3d that was formerly classified as 
unit and intermediate maintenance (current terminology in aviation TMs) in the applicable MAC.  
(2)  Have appropriate resources (both the personnel and equipment as authorized by the applicable 
TDA and/or table of organization and equipment TOE to perform field (current unit -level tasks) mainte-
nance.  
(3)  Be staffed and equipped to perform high frequenc y—on aircraft —maintenance tasks.  
c.  ASBs and/or aviation support companies and AVCRAD or Army aviation support facility will furnish 
mobile, responsive, one -stop maintenance support and perform all maintenance functions as designated 
by the MAC in mate riel publications as either field or sustainment maintenance, as required.  
(1)  Authorized maintenance includes the following:  
(a)  Replacement and repair of modules and components.  
(b)  Repair of end items that can be efficiently accomplished with available skills, TMDE, tools, and ma-
teriel.  
(2)  Repair materiel for return to user and emphasize support of OR requirements.  
(3)  Establish a program to support AMC and/or Army aviation fli ght activity units by repairing selected 
items for return to stock when such repairs cannot be accomplished at the AMC and/or Army aviation 
flight activity level.  
(4)  Inspect, troubleshoot, test, diagnose, repair, adjust, calibrate, and align aircraft sy stem modules 
and components. Module and component disassembly and repair normally will be limited to tasks requir-
ing cleaning and the replacement of seals, fittings, and items of common hardware.  
(5)  Determine the condition of specified modules and compon ents removed prior to the expiration of 
the time between overhaul or finite life.  
(6)  Perform aircraft weight and balance inspections and other special inspections that exceed AMC 
and/or Army aviation flight activity capability.  
(7)  Furnish quick respon se maintenance support and technical assistance using mobile maintenance 
support teams and aircraft recovery and evacuation.  
(8)  Furnish collection and classification services for serviceable and unserviceable materiel.  
(9)  Operate a cannibalization poin t activity under AR 710  –  2. 
(10)  Inspect, troubleshoot, test, diagnose, repair, adjust, calibrate, and alignment of aircraft system 
specific GSE. Concern lies within systems requir ed to attain and maintain an airworthiness standard as 
defined in AR 70  –  62 regardless of the GSE being a flight or non -flight capable system. Examples of non -
flight GSE of concern are aircraft jacks and stands and the aviation ground power unit which provides al-
ternating current and/or direct current electricity, pneumatic air, and hydraulic ground power to the air-
craft. An example of a flight capable GSE is the unit maintenance aerial recovery kit which is used to re-
cover damage aircraft via sling lo ad operations. Commanders will ensure GSE is maintained and sus-
tained to standard ensuring the safety and airworthiness of the aircraft and or systems the GSE is used 
with will not be compromised.  
d.  Maintenance functions that exceed field -level repair capability will be passed back to sustainment -
based maintenance activity.  
 
e.  Unserviceable repairable modules, components, and end items that are beyond the capability of an 
ASB and/or Army aviation support facility to repair will be evacuated to the des ignated sustainment base 
maintenance activity.  
f.  GSE and TMDE will be evacuated to the appropriate field or sustainment unit of action and/or ground 
maintenance when it is beyond the capability of an aviation support company and/or ASB to repair.  
g.  Calibration and repair of TMDE will be performed as indicated in AR 750  –  43, DA Pam 750  –  43, and 
TB 43  –  180. 