
7–2.  Maintenance policies  
a.  The PD Army watercraft systems ( AWS), Program Executive Office Combat Support and Combat 
Service Support, ( PEO CS& CSS) is the life cycle manager for Army watercraft. The PD AWS, in partner-
ship with U.S. Tank -automotive and Armaments Comm and ( TACOM) LCMC, is responsible for all facets 
of life cycle management, to include sustainment maintenance and logistics support management pro-
cesses of watercraft throughout its life cycle.  
b.  Field maintenance is comprised of crew and maintainer lev el maintenance.  
(1)  Crew -level maintenance is characterized by on -system maintenance performed by watercraft oper-
ators and engineers.  
(2)  Maintainer -level maintenance is characterized by on/off -system maintenance performed by water-
craft engineers.  
(3)  In some cases, maintainer -level maintenance actions are performed, in accordance with the appli-
cable MAC, by a maintenance contractor using best commercial practices.  
 
(4)  The makeup of a vessel crew is such that, it includes equipment ope rators as well as equipment 
operator/maintainers. For this reason, vessel crews will be treated in the same regard as a ground -based 
maintenance support team.  
c.  All regulations, policies, apportionments, and allocations that apply to a maintenance suppor t team 
apply to a vessel crew. For instance, a vessel is authorized a shop stock and bench stock the same as a 
maintenance support team.  
d.  Sustainment maintenance is comprised of below sustainment and sustainment -level maintenance.  
(1)  Below depot -level maintenance does not require dry -dock or shipyard facilities but in most cases 
does require tools and/or support equipment and/or personnel resources exceeding the authorizations of 
FLM activities. Below depot -maintenance is routinely performed pier side  by contracted maintenance sup-
port or occasionally through the installation maintenance activity using best commercial practices accord-
ing to the language of a specific service(s) contract tailored to those repairs.  
(2)  Sustainment -level maintenance actio ns are of an intensive nature and are typically performed by 
contractors, requiring dry -dock and/or shipyard facilities using best commercial practices according to the 
language of a specific service(s) contract tailored to those repairs.  
(3)  On-condition, cyclic -maintenance is a sustainment -level service. This service is required to meet 
numerous, vessel specific, federal statutory and regulatory requirements.  
e.  TACOM, through the Watercraft Inspection Branch ( WIB), will provide the follow ing maintenance 
support and services for the performance of maintenance and/or repair actions on Army watercraft:  
(1)  Service, overhaul, and/or repair of end items should be outlined in the MAC. The MAC will cross-
walk the maintenance task to the part, s pecial tools, and test equipment to diagnose and/or repair to in-
clude times of task completion. When the MAC does not include service, overhaul, repair and/or trouble-
shooting references, PD AWS or commercial manufacturers TM will provide referencing gu idance.  
(2)  Maintenance actions within watercraft legacy MACs identified in column F of the MAC are a shared 
responsibility between field and sustainment levels of maintenance. Availability of manpower, tools, and 
support equipment at the field level wi ll be the primary factor in determining at which level the repair will 
be performed. Maintenance actions within watercraft legacy MACs identified in column H of the MAC are 
the responsibility of sustainment maintenance. When the MAC does not identify th e maintenance level for 
a maintenance function of a component assembly it will be performed by sustainment -level maintenance. 
Maintenance activity level subjectivity will be clarified by TACOM Watercraft Group.  
(3)  All sustainment maintenance performed b y WIB or contractors will be performed utilizing approved 
TELS in accordance with this regulation.  
f.  Perform a marine survey and/or TI by a WIB marine inspector or surveyor. The inspection will deter-
mine the statement of work required at the field an d sustainment levels to return a watercraft to a service-
able condition ( TM  –  10 series and TM  –  20 series standard).  
g.  Sustainment maintenance is contracted through the WIB utilizing the LIS work order process. Sus-
tainment maintenance will be accompl ished on a case by case basis according to the language of a spe-
cific service(s) contract tailored to the required repairs, specified by WIB, as follows:  
(1)  When repairs dictate that a watercraft be d ry-docked to accomplish the necessary maintenance 
tasks, the WIB will provide a dry -dock report.  
(2)  When operational conditions dictate, TACOM LCMC may authorize lower -level maintenance activi-
ties to perform repairs beyond their authorized level of re pair action. The QA and TELS work order data 
responsibility remains as designated in the MAC and/or commercial manufacturer's TMs.  
h.  Emergency repairs are immediate maintenance actions required to return the watercraft to a sea-
worthy, safe, and opera ble condition.  
(1)  The vessel master is authorized to perform emergency repairs at any level of maintenance when 
engaged in sailing operations (underway and/or deployed away from home port) when faults or deficien-
cies occur which are outside their authori zed level of repair. This decision will be based upon the availa-
bility of resources at sea, the skill of the crew, and the impact of repairs to seaworthiness and operability.  
(2)  Sustainment emergency repairs made at the field -level must be inspected by w ork order to the ap-
propriate maintenance activity as designated by the MAC for determination of the proper repair. This in-
spection will be requested as communications are available with that activity. Vessel configuration control 
will be maintained. Any d eviations to the original configuration will be reported through the departure from 
specifications process in accordance with DA Pam 750  –  8 and returned to its original configuration upon 
return to home port.  
 
(3)  In cases where commands await dispositio n instructions, watercraft will be maintained in accord-
ance with guidance provided by the PD AWS.  