
5–13.  Planning, programming, budgeting , and execution of depot maintenance workload  
a.  Planning.  
(1)  A flexible depot maintenance base capable of expansion to react to emergency military needs will 
be established and sustained. Sustainment maintenance support will be planned and completed by  the 
combined use of Government and commercial sources.  
(2)  An organic sustainment maintenance capability (including trained personnel) will be established 
and sustained based on workloads generated by those weapon systems and materiel that are essential to 
completion of the Army’s primary roles and missions. This capability will be sized to workload as fore-
casted in the Army’s LMP, will maintain surge capacity, and will sustain the reconstitution capabilities. 
These capabilities include initial surges of  180 days mobilization, emergencies, and maintenance support 
to commands with mission essential materiel. DoD 4151.18  –  H will be used to determine the capacity of 
depot -level activities.  
(3)  Workload will be based on expected returns and demands as well as validated performance stand-
ards. Where such standards have not been developed or are not available, historical performance data 
will be used. When neither performance standards nor historical performance data are available, 
 
engineering projections developed during maintenance support planning will be used. Workload stand-
ards will be adjusted based on changes in any capacity or as production data matures.  
(4)  Resource planning for depot maintenance manpower, floor space, and plant equipment will pro vide 
for the efficient accomplishment of all depot materiel maintenance programs.  
b.  Programming and budgeting.  
(1)  Requirements determination will be based on information from the AAO, initial issue quantity ( IIQ), 
equipment modernization and fielding  plans, demand history, field operating costs, readiness factors, and 
other appropriate sources. Force structure, operating tempo, flying hours, equipment identified for divesti-
ture (retirements and phase -outs), and prior program and budget guidance and de cisions are also consid-
ered. Items scheduled to be removed from the inventory within 5 years will not normally be considered for 
depot maintenance. Modification efforts requiring depot maintenance prior to application of the modifica-
tion and/or conversion kit will be programmed in conjunction with existing overhaul and repair schedules.  
(2)  Prioritization of depot maintenance end -item requirements, including PPSS, will be in accordance 
with the latest DCS, G  –  3/5/7 prioritization guidance and published POM guidance.  
(3)  All customers of depot maintenance, regardless of source of funds, appropriation, or SOR, will pro-
gram requirements for the current year, 1 budget -year, and 5 out -years for the POM submission. Any re-
quirements entered in DMOPS should  also be entered into LMP where applicable. For execution of re-
quirements, the customer should plan to identify the requirement to the appropriate LCMC no later than 
the end of the first quarter in the year of execution. When entering requirements in LMP, current year and 
1–year schedules should be loaded as a minimum. The remaining 5 years should be loaded as a mini-
mum, in quarterly buckets.  
(4)  Each year AMC will coordinate with LCMCs to submit their depot maintenance requirements to 
DCS, G  –  4, (M aintenance Director), and the Sustaining PEG for consideration in the Army’s POM submis-
sion.  
(5)  DCS, G  –  4, (Maintenance Director) will issue a comprehensive annual POM Program Requirements 
Guidance to assist ACOMs in developing their POM  requirement submission, to include a directed prioriti-
zation matrix. The DCS, G  –  4 (Sustainment Maintenance Division) will lead a functional review of all POM 
requirements for depot maintenance (this process is referred to as the OP  –  29) and sustainm ent system 
technical support ( SSTS) requirements review, sustainment maintenance requirements, and their respec-
tive funding are regularly updated in DMOPS to maintain visibility of the balance between required work-
load programs and approved sustainment m aintenance funding.  
(6)  Automated management information systems will be used to the maximum extent feasible so that 
the determination and distribution of workloads may be completed in an effective and timely manner and 
to efficiently manage program execu tion. 
(7)  Sustainment maintenance cost and technical data will be collected utilizing LMP to facilitate defen-
sible planning and programming. Data collection will be in accordance with HQDA and/or OSD policy.  
(8)  Both the MATDEV and the LCSEC  will collect cost and technical software execution data to facili-
tate defensible planning and programming. Data collection will be in accordance with HQDA/ OSD policy.  
c.  Post-production software support programming and budgeting.  
(1)  For planning and programming purposes, a system will not transition into the PPSS (sustainment) 
phase of its life cycle until the first full FY after the weapon system software increment production is com-
plete. For those weapon systems whose software development is not t ied to a specific software increment 
production line, transition will not occur prior to the completion of fielding of the software.  
(2)  The MATDEV will plan, program, budget, and execute all mission -critical computer resources 
weapon system software sup port requirements until the transition of PPBE process responsibilities from 
the MATDEV to the designated LCSEC is completed. The MATDEV and LCSEC will plan and coordinate 
PPSS with appropriate matrix support elements to synchronize the support neede d for PPSS. Once the 
transition is complete, the LCSEC will assume all PPBE process responsibilities for the PPSS of the 
weapon system.  
(3)  Procurement and/or research, development, test, and evaluat ion funds will be used for all software 
support requirements until the weapon system software increment production is completed or in support 
of significant modifications. OMA funds will be used for software support after the weapon system soft-
ware increm ent production is complete. OMA dollars will be planned and programmed by the MATDEV in 
coordination with the LCSEC through the POM until the first FY OMA funds are used. The MATDEV will 
use the system MDEPs to program and budget all software suppo rt prior to transition into PPSS. After 
that, the LCSEC will plan, program, budget, and execute PPSS requirements.  
 
(4)  Total system program funding (such as hardware and software) will be balanced to attain maximum 
battlefield functionality. The MATDE V MSC and LCSEC will jointly review the system's programmed re-
quirements and funding across all appropriations and ensure the funding profile is sufficient and in com-
pliance with HQDA financial policy to maintain visibility of both PPSS and system hard ware requirements 
and funding.  
(5)  PPSS requirements will be defined as the level of effort necessary to retain the minimum essential 
capabilities of the system fielded (this means do no more than keep the system that was fielded opera-
tional), correct op erational defects, and maintain minimum battlefield functionality. Funding will be in-
cluded for retention of a software engineering capability.  
(6)  LCSEC core costs are not to be distributed as part of the system PPSS cost.  
(7)  COTS software may becom e a PPSS funding consideration only if the weapon system uses com-
mercial computer hardware or software that has been modified, the software is embedded and cannot be 
vendor updated, or the software has a life cycle of greater than 5 years.  
(8)  Both the MATDEV and the LCSEC will collect software cost and technical execution data to facili-
tate defensible planning and programming. Data collection will be in accordance with HQDA and/or OSD 
policy.  
d.  Deferred maintenance and financial reporting.  
(1)  Procurement request order numbers for depot -level deferred maintenance will be recorded in 
DMOPS at priority 155 (deferred maintenance).  
(2)  The Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board requires the DCS, G  –  4 to provide supplemental 
information on d eferred maintenance as part of the Army’s financial statement. Army financial data will be 
submitted not later than 10 days after the FY ends. Army will disclose in a financial statement the materiel 
amounts of unfunded deferred maintenance on the nationa l level, deferred field maintenance, and de-
ferred maintenance on property plant and equipment.  
(3)  The two acceptable methods of measuring deferred maintenance are: the condition survey method 
and the life cycle cost forecast method, both of which are def ined in the Federal Accounting Standards 
Advisory Board, Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Standards No. 6, Accounting for Property, 
Plant, and Equipment.  
(4)  The DoD FMR allows the DCS, G  –  4 to report deferred maintenance on weapon systems us ing the 
cost assessment survey. The survey is based on the condition of reportable assets, life cycle cost fore-
cast of cumulative deferred maintenance, or other methods if the accounting method is adequately de-
scribed in the financial statements.  
(a)  When  reporting deferred maintenance, deferred maintenance scheduled to be completed in future 
years must be addressed.  
(b)  Cost assessment of depot -level maintenance requirements are completed annually for weapon 
systems and related support equipment. The cos t assessments are based on condition assessments, 
scheduled recapitalization, and other special depot maintenance programs that may involve reconstitution 
of the force.  