
3–10.  Field maintenance  
a.  The fundamental element of field maintenance is the requirement for PMCS. See DA Pam 750  –  1 for 
the characteristics of field maintenance.  
b.  Operator and/or crew maintenance is the foundation of Army maintenance and requires continuous 
emphasis from all commanders and leaders. Operator and crew proficiency are critical to readiness and 
must be made a priority by leaders at all levels.  
(1)  Comm anders must establish a command climate that ensures assigned equipment is maintained to 
the maintenance standard defined in paragraph 3  –  3 and DA Pam 750  –  1 and are responsible for provid-
ing resources, assigning r esponsibility, and training Soldiers to achieve this standard.  
(2)  Operator and/or crew performing PMCS from the applicable TM  –  10 series is the cornerstone of the 
Army maintenance system. NCOs are responsible for ensuring operator and crew proficienc y in the use 
and care of their assigned equipment. Commanders must provide and protect adequate time for NCOs to 
train and achieve required levels of proficiency.  
(a)  Deficiencies detected during the before operations portion of the PMCS which render the equip-
ment NMC per the Technical Manual or violate a safety directive must be corrected before the mission.  
(b)  Deficiencies detected during the mission affecting FMC must be corrected during the mission.  
c.  Recovery vehicle policy.  
(1)  Wheeled and tracked recovery vehicles will be operated by properly trained and certified recovery 
personnel.  
(2)  At a minimum, there must be at least one wheel recovery ASI H8 cert ified recovery operations indi-
vidual in the vehicle while performing recovery missions for wheeled recovery vehicles, and at least two 
track certified ASI H9 track recovery specialists for tracked recovery operations.  
(3)  A wheel ASI H8 recovery special ist or a track ASI H9 recovery specialist cannot be substituted to 
perform recovery operations with equipment they have not been properly trained on and certified for by 
the U.S. Army Ordnance School.  
d.  Authority to perform communications security ( COM SEC) repair cannot be delegated. Request for 
waivers will be submitted through command channels to Director, U.S. Army Communications Security 
Logistics Activity (AMEL  –  LCA) 2133 Cushing Street, Suite 3600, Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613  –  7041 for ap-
proval.  
e.  USAR specific requirements — 
(1)  USAR maintenance activities were established to perform FLM, which is beyond the USAR com-
mander's capability to perform during scheduled training assemblies. Geographical support boundaries 
are assigned by the USARC. The maintenance activities are designated for ground support equipment 
(GSE), watercraft, or ground and watercraft.  
(2)  Equipment concentration sites ( ECSs) have a maintenance branch with a mission to support units 
in the surrounding geographical area a nd a storage branch for that equipment beyond the capability of 
the owning unit commander to store, maintain, or use at the home station. Preference for storage location 
should be at the unit’s mobilization or AT site to minimize transportation costs and time delays during mo-
bilization.  
(3)  Area maintenance support activities ( AMSAs) and ECS, with an assigned maintenance support 
mission for small arms, are authorized to perform field maintenance. This support c an be performed at the 
unit’s home station using maintenance contact teams or at the AMSA and/or ECS when the small arms 
are evacuated to these facilities by the owning unit. MTOE maintenance personnel may perform duties of 
TDA maintenance activities t o reduce backlog, maintain skills, and update MOS training.  
(4)  USAR TDA maintenance activities are authorized to perform FLM contingent upon availability of 
required resources and skilled personnel. An alternate field maintenance activity within the geographic 
 
support area may be used. When used, an installation support activity or contract may be required. Items 
requiring field maintenance may be evacuated to the most cost -effective location for repair or replace-
ment.  
f.  ARNG  specific requirements — 
(1)  FMS in the ARNG will provide field maintenance that is beyond the capabilities of owning units. 
Owning units will perform field maintenance, including scheduled services, within the capability of the unit 
during IDT and AT periods. Unit commanders will advise supporting FMS forepersons of field mainte-
nance requirements that are beyond their unit’s capability. FMSs will perform the following maintenance 
functions for surface equipment — 
(a)  Maintain liaison with supported u nit commanders.  
(b)  Schedule maintenance services, when feasible, to coincide with quarterly and semiannual services.  
(c)  Service all equipment issued under warranty as specified in the manufacturer's service manual or 
materiel fielding plan.  
(d)  Mainta in authorized repair parts and supplies, for the unit, when the Class IX is located at the FMS.  
(e)  Furnish contact teams to perform field maintenance and inspection when this is more economical 
than scheduling equipment into the shop.  
(f)  Augment maint enance that is beyond the capability of units using training sites.  
(g)  Provide administrative and operational control support for assigned unit assets, including readiness 
reporting to parent organizations.  
(h)  Handle equipment evacuation in accordance with DA Pam 750  –  1. 
(2)  The ARNG CSMS will perform field and (repair and return) sustainment maintenance on all Federal 
surface equipment. The CSMS is under the control and supervision of the surface maintena nce manager 
and provides field and sustainment maintenance to:  
(a)  Equipment pre -positioned at a co -located MATES and/or UTES.  
(b)  Augment support to non -collocated MATES.  
(c)  Supported FMSs.  
(d)  Any DoD agency when authorized by CNGB.  