
 
14–11.  The Army Tire Program  
a.  Command emphasis is required at all levels to obtain maximum safety when personnel are working 
with tires.  
b.  Responsibilities specific to the Army Tire Program:  
(1)  AMC  is responsible for management of all DA aircraft and vehicle tires.  
(2)  AMC will participate as a member of the Tri -Service Aircraft Tire Coordination Group to improve 
aircraft tire management by — 
(a)  Reviewing Tri -Service aircraft tire maintenance da ta and/or analysis reports.  
(b)  Coordinating procurement cost of new tires with the U.S. Air Force ( USAF) and Navy.  
(c)  Coordinating with the USAF and Navy to revise specifications tires based on the latest technology.  
(d)  Coordinating with the USAF and Navy to consolidate and upgrade technical data concerning tire 
and inner tube publications.  
(e)  Designating program proponents for developing and managing vehicle and aircraft tire programs.  
(3)  Program proponents will — 
(a)  Develop policy and  procedures to manage and control tires.  
(b)  Establish reporting procedures needed to determine the cost effectiveness of retreaded tires and 
report savings under the Army Resources Conservation Program.  
(c)  Ensure only new tires for foreign military sal es items.  
(d)  Negotiate and sign all tire support agreements.  
(e)  Participate jointly with USAF and Navy in qualifying aircraft tire retread contractors who repair tires 
common to all services.  
(4)  In developing and managing pneumatic tires, proponents  will adhere to the following repair policy 
criteria:  
(5)  Major Army commanders, TSG, and the Chief of Engineers will and maximize safety during pneu-
matic tire use by — 
(a)  Maximizing the use of training courses.  
(b)  Ensuring thorough inspecti on of pneumatic tires mounted on vehicles and aircraft during PMCS 
and removal when tread depths reach the dimension for retreading.  
(c)  Ensuring that all maintenance personnel are complying with the requirements of TM 
9  –  2610  –  200  –  14. 
(d)  Developi ng accurate workload requirement forecasts.  
(e)  Reporting excess serviceable (new and retread) and economically reparable tires to the NICP for 
disposition in accordance with AR 725  –  50. 
(f)  Developing aircraft tire usage and performance data upon req uest from DoD.  
(g)  When required, TACOM or AMCOM will provide technical assistance to field and sustainment 
maintenance personnel.  
c.  Training.  
(1)  All commanders will ensure training is provided to all individuals who service single -piece or multi -
piece rims and wheels used on large vehicles. These individuals will demonstrate proficiency in their abil-
ity to perform specific tire, rim, and wheel tasks. Individual ability to perform these tasks will be evaluated 
and a record maintained documenting thi s evaluation. Contact the local TACOM LAR for tire care, 
maintenance, repair, demounting, and demounting training.  
(2)  In-depth tire training pertaining to pneumatic tire inspection, classification, repair, care, mainte-
nance, and rebuild standards is conducted through TACOM. This in -depth training is targeted for all 
CONUS and OCONUS sustainment -level tire inspectors and maintenance managers.  
(3)  TACOM also provides onsite general tire maintenance training classes for CONUS and OCON US 
at the unit location. This onsite training includes the basics needed for pneumatic tire inspection, classifi-
cation, care, repair, and use of tire inflation safety cage and maintenance of tires. Safety cage training will 
include a pneumatic tire inflati on gage and 10 -foot air hose. This training will be offered by TACOM at the 
unit's expense.  
(4)  CONUS and OCONUS tire maintenance training requirements may be coordinated with the Com-
mander, U.S. Army Tank -automotive and Armaments Command (AMSTA  –  IM  –  LC  –  CJT (Tire Group)), 
Warren, MI 48397  –  5000.  
(5)  Training must be justified under criteria prescribed in AR 5  –  20. 