
14–6.  Army Maintenance Floats  
a.  Authorized Army maintenance regeneration enablers include RCF and TCX.  
b.  RCF is a DA authorized quantity of selected class VII and VIII end items with a LIN and national 
item identificatio n number ( NIIN). The goal of the RCF program is to maintain established readiness lev-
els at the Corps/Theater levels. RCF requirements are part of the AAO.  
c.  The system of record for RCF asset accountability is the LMP. RCF assets must be coded as  a 
readiness float within the system of record maintenance master data file ( MMDF).  
 
d.  AMC will account for RCF assets, not to exceed the established MEL, and issue or exchange floats 
in the LMP to/from GCSS –Army  in support of requesting unit or depot in accordance with DCS, G  –  3/5/7 
SRM priorities.  
e.  When OR is below the Army standard and available RCF assets are not sufficient to mitigate readi-
ness gaps, AMC may program for funding needed to repair avail able assets to establish seeds for the 
RCF program.  
f.  AMC will establish a written agreement with ACOM/ ASCC, as appropriate, to authorize overseas 
field support maintenance activities (for example: MSC  –  K and TLSC  –  E) to account for, maintain and  is-
sue RCF assets that are forward positioned within their respective overseas area of responsibilities.  
g.  Supporting maintenance activities will evacuate approved RCF assets (if available) to requesting 
units:  
(1)  CONUS within 10 days, to include tr ansportation requirements.  
(2)  OCONUS within 30 days, to include transportation requirements.  
h.  Receiving Corps/ theater unit will ship approved NMC asset to the supporting maintenance activity:  
(1)  CONUS  within 10 days, to include transportation requirements.  
(2)  OCONUS within 30 days, to include transportation requirements.  
i.  Ground equipment RCF assets may be issued to fill higher Army requirements, such as:  
(1)  Sustainment -level repair replacement.  
(2)  Planned sustainment repair replacement.  
(3)  Fill shortages due to RCF transaction.  
j.  Aviation equipment RCF assets may be issued to fill higher Army requirements, such as:  
(1)  Phase maintenance replacement.  
(2)  Attrition replacemen t. 
(3)  Sustainment -level repair replacement.  
(4)  Planned sustainment repair replacement.  
(5)  Test bed aircraft surge requirement.  
(6)  Training base aircraft surge requirement.  
k.  RCF assets will not be used to — 
(1)  Provide a SOR parts (controlled e xchange or cannibalization).  
(2)  Expand currently assigned missions or set up new operational missions.  
(3)  Replace items that have been cannibalized.  
(4)  Satisfy temporary loan requirements.  
(5)  Set up a peacetime pool of equipment to reconstitute the force.  
l.  RCF transaction requirements — 
(1)  Units will request RCF to meet operational requirements through their chain of command.  
(2)  Units will reimburse gaining support maintenance activity for FLM CLIX parts and labor within 10  
days of disposition instructions approval.  
(3)  ACOMs, ASCCs, and/or DRUs will approve all RCF transactions.  
(4)  Corps/Theater will manage fleets/system OR rates and approve RCF transaction requests that ef-
fectively mitigate long term Corps/Theater -level readiness gaps in accordance with the induction criteria 
in paragraph 14 –6l(8). 
(5)  Joint TIs will be completed within 5 days upon approval.  
(6)  Joint TIs will be, recorded within the system of re cord and verified by a supporting LAR, 
LRC/ AFSBn representative.  
(7)  AMC will take ownership of equipment upon completion of the Joint TI. 
(8)  RCF Criteria —the below criteria will be considered when approving an RCF transaction:  
(a)  Sustainment -level maintenance: 1) Identified sustainment -level faults cannot be fixed locally within 
30 days  2) LCMC approved CVE candidate (not funded)  3) LCMC a pproved Shelf Life Extension Pro-
gram candidate (not funded)  4) un -economically repairable (repairs exceed life cycle management sus-
tainment cost)  5) modernization  6) recapitalization.  
(b)  FLM: 1) corp/theater fleet has averaged below 90 percent goal f or the past 12 months (oldest 
equipment has induction priority)  2) estimated ship date is over 365 days  3) battle loss/battle damaged  
4) condition code H.  
m.  Responsibilities.  
(1)  The ASA (ALT) — 
 
(a)  In coordination with the combat developer assess whether there is a maintenance float requirement 
and provide this information to the combat developer. The combat developer will calculate RCF require-
ments using the formula in table 14  –  1  for new ground acquisition or RCF formula for Aviation programs 
as part of the requirements process. This will establish the initial RCF component with the overall ap-
proved AAO. Coordinate with the DCS, G  –  8, DCS, G  –  4 and DCS, G  –  3/5/7 (DAMO  –  AV) to determine the 
APO quantity associated with RCF quantity.  
(b)  Request access to the RCF requirements in DCS, G  –  8, Force Development AE2S to facilitate AAO 
and APO reviews and confirm RCF requirements  by LIN, NIIN, command, UIC, and FY no later than the 
second quarter of each FY utilizing previous FY data.  
 
Table 14  –  1 
Repair cycle float and tactical computer exchange authorization formulas  —  Continued  
Time frame  Formula  
RCF Formula for Systems - Before Fielding  
(Used by MATDEVs)  Requirement = (RG x IIQ) x [ MTTR/( MTBF+ MTTR)]  
RCF Formula for - Nominated Fielded Ground 
Systems  
(Used by ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs)  Requirement = (RG - annual fleet OR rate) x LIN density  
RCF Formula for - Fielded Ground Systems  
(Used by AMC)  Requirement = ( RCT divided by MTBO) x LIN ( IIQ) density  
RCF Formula for - Aviation Systems (Used by 
DAMO  –  AV/AMCOM)  
  Requirement = (FS) + (DR + MR)  
Note:  
1 RG = readiness goal from AR 700  –  138. 
2 For initial computation during acquisition development, MTTR and MTBF is in days.  
3 The MTBF and MTTR are those operational requirements specified for that system by the CAPDEV, documented in the initial capab ilities document, 
and included in the product support analysis requirements.  
4 When these elements are in rounds, hours, miles, or events, they must be converted to days. During development, MTBF and MTTR data will be 
obtained from the product support an alysis requirements.  
5 Supported assets and supported LIN on hand exclude RCF assets.  
6 MTBO = Mean Time Between Overhauls.  
7 IIQ = Initial Issue Quantity.  
8 FS = Force Structure: Number of Aviation Battalions with like Mission Design Series Aircraft.  
9 DR = Depot Repair: Previous 5 -year annual average number of aircraft inducted into Corpus Christi Depot for DLR.  
10 MR = Modernization Requirements: Next 5 -year annual average number of aircraft projected to be inducted into a modernization program (Rem anu-
facture (AH64), Recapitalization (UH60, CH47).  
11 MTTR = mean time to repair.  
12 MTBF = mean time between failure.  
13 RCT = repair cycle time.  
 
(2)  The DCS, G  –  3/5/7 will, annually — 
(a)  Evaluate DCS, G  –  4 proposed AAO RCF adjustments and approve RCF requirements in accord-
ance with Army priorities and established modernization plan.  
(b)  Provide approved AAO for execution.  
(c)  Update MMDF based on DCS, G  –  3/5/7 approved RCF requirements.  
(3)  DAMO  –  AV will review, v alidate, approve, and centrally manage aircraft RCF requirements to meet 
the needs of the Army and are accounted for based on evolving distribution priorities. Central manage-
ment of float aircraft is required due to low density of the population, aircraft  production timelines, DLR 
timelines, rate of attrition, and evolving operational requirements.  
(4)  Combat Developer ( PEO/ PM) will — 
(a)  Determine the RCF maintenance float requirement using the methodology in table 14  –  1 in coordi-
nation with the MATDEV and coordinate this requirement with DCS, G  –  8; DCS, G  –  4; and DCS, G  –  3/5/7.  
(b)  RCF requirem ents must be documented in the LCSP and be reviewed and updated every 5 years 
or sooner if dictated by operational availability and readiness requirements.  
(5)  The DCS, G  –  4 will, annually — 
 
(a)  Provide oversight of the RCF computation and annual submission process to assess the effective-
ness of the program and provide any updates based on OR/availability and fleet readiness.  
(b)  Recommend to DCS, G  –  3/5/7 approval and/or disapproval of RCF requirements.  
(c)  Validate t he requirements for ground systems that are fielded and in the operations and sustain-
ment life cycle phase; specifically the DCS, G  –  4 (Sustainment Maintenance Division) at 
(usarmy.pentagon.hqda -dcs-g-4.mbx.dcs -g44s -mps@mail.mil ). 
(d)  Validate aviation system RCF requirements; specifically the DCS, G  –  4 (Aviation Maintenance Divi-
sion), in coordination with DA MO  –  AV. 
(e)  Validate combat developer RCF requirements for new ground systems acquisitions that have not 
been fielded; specifically, the G  –  4 Integrated Logistics Support Division, in coordination with the DCS, 
G  –  8, Synchronization Staff Officers.  
(6)  The DCS, G  –  8 will — 
(a)  Evaluate DCS, G  –  4 validated RCF requirements for affordability and determine the APO quantity 
as appropriate.  
(b)  Ensure RCF requirements are the same LIN and modernization as supported assets.  
(c)  Approve RCF requirements and update AE2S with approved requirements.  
(d)  Validate asset availability, procure assets, and provide disposition of excess to support the ap-
proved RCF requirements.  
(7)  AMC wil l— 
(a)  Review and verify LCMC, ACOM, ASCC and DRU RCF nominations for fielded equipment and cal-
culate the total RCF requirement using the formula in table 14  –  1 and submit requirements to the DCS, 
G  –  4 (Sustainment Maintenance Division) to begin the staffing process for the AAO.  
(b)  Fund second destination transportation requirements.  
(c)  Account for RCF in accordance with AR 750  –  1. 
(d)  Coordinate with ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs to develop specific RCF sustainment and FLM 
maintenance criteria for RCF induction.  
(e)  Maintain accountability of RCF assets in LMP and ensure float transactions are documented in 
GCSS –Army.  
(f)  Establish a written agreement with supporting field maintenance activities to account for RCF assets 
in accordance with the Army maintenance standard in paragraph 3  –  3 and DA Pam 750  –  1.  
(g)  Ensure depots and supporting field maintenance activities account for RCF assets in accordance 
with Army maintenance standard in paragraph 3  –  3 and DA Pam 750  –  1.  
(h)  Ensure RCF is accounted for on the APSR.  
(i)  Ensure RCF maintenance readiness is separately reported monthly in accordance with AR 
700  –  138. 
(j)  Program funding requirements for the sustainment of RCF assets.  
(8)  Commanders of ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs will — 
(a)  Appoint in writing as an additional duty an RCF coordinator/manager.  
(b)  Establish subordinate RCF managers at the Corp/ Expeditionary Sustainment Command -level.  
(c)  Submit RCF nominations 3rd quarter annually to AMC for fielded ground equipment in a ccordance 
with the formula in table 14  –  1 of this regulation.  
(d)  Ensure aviation RCF is in accordance with this paragraph.  
(e)  Ensure RCF policy compliance.  
(f)  Ensure RCF supply transactions are conducted according to AR 710  –  2. 
(g)  Ensure Joint TI is conducted and signed by a LAR, LRC/ AFSBn representative.  