
4–9.  Equipment transfer and turn -in 
a.  All DST directed transfers between ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs  must be coordinated and formal-
ized through a jointly approved lateral transfer document prepared by the losing accountable officer (see 
AR 710  –  2). Transfers to other DoD military departments or other Government agencies must be ap-
proved by the applica ble NICP in accordance with AR 710  –  1. Equipment that is transferred between 
ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs, including USAR and ARNG, transferred into the APS, prepared for storage 
below the national level, and other specified stocks will meet the followi ng requirements:  
(1)  The maintenance standard as defined in DA Pam 750  –  1. 
(2)  Scheduled services will be current as of the date of shipment from the losing organization. The cri-
teria for services are suspended during shipment and will resume upon acce ptance at gaining site.  
(3)  The results of TM  –  10 series and TM  –  20 series PMCS and preventive maintenance inspection and 
service acceptance inspections (record copy of DA Form 2404, DA Form 5988  –  E, or DA Form 
2408  –  13  –  3 (Aircraft Technical Inspection Worksheet)) and other records required by DA Pam 738  –  751 
and DA Pam 750  –  8 will accompany the equipment.  
(4)  Gun tubes will have a minimum of 500 rounds of effective full charge remaining when transferred 
into APS. O n transfers other than into Army war reserve stocks, gun tubes will have a minimum of 75 ef-
fective full charge rounds remaining.  
(5)  Winterization of equipment destined for geographic locations where temperatures range from nega-
tive 25 degrees Fahrenheit to negative 60 degrees Fahrenheit.  
(6)  Equipment accepted for depot overhaul through the Combat Vehicle Evaluation ( CVE) Program or 
identified as a depot recapitalization candidate will not be directly transferred between ACOMs, ASCCs, 
and DRUs.  
b.  Equipment transfer between ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs in unit sets (force package fielding) will 
meet the requirements listed in paragraph 4 –9a as well as the following — 
(1)  Requisitions for repair parts with estimat ed delivery dates past the transfer date will be canceled 
unless the requisition is from previous FY funds. These requisitions will be moved and allowed to come in 
to prevent de -obligation of prior year funds. Appropriate funds (price from current Materie l Master and/or 
FEDLOG or WebFLIS) will be transferred to AMC.  
(2)  Outstanding field and sustainment maintenance requests that cannot be completed prior to transfer 
will— 
(a)  Require the gaining and losing ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs  to negotiate an acceptable solution 
such as delayed transfer dates for specific pieces of equipment. Agreement requires concurrence of 
DCS, G  –  3/5/7.  
 
(b)  Be cancelled. Appropriate funds (current Materiel Master or FEDLOG or WebFLIS price) will be 
transferred to AMC as outlined in transfer MOA.  
(3)  ACOMs, ASCCs, DRUs, and/or agencies are responsible for funding temporary duty related to their 
responsibilities for transfers as outlined in transfer MOA.  
c.  AMC  responsibilities for unit set transfers between ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs include the follow-
ing: 
(1)  Serving as an arbitrator for transfers as outlined in paragraph 4 –9a. If AMC  is an active party in the 
transfer, the DCS, G  –  4 (Maintenance Directorate) will be the arbitrator.  
(2)  Receiving funds transferred from losing ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs as outlined in paragraph 4 –
9b(2) (b). 
(3)  Performing corrective actions at the receiving and/or handoff site to ensure equipment is in the 
same condition as reflected by record copy of acceptance inspection required in paragraphs 4–9a(3)  and 
4–9a(4) . 
(4)  Providing total package fielding support to gaining ACOM, ASCC, and DRU.  
d.  Equipment transferred between ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs in other than unit sets will meet the re-
quirements in paragraph 4 –9b(2)(a) . In addition, equipment will not be transferred until all corrective ac-
tions requiring parts are completed and field and sustainment maintenance requests are completed.  
e.  Exceptions to the turn -in policy are — 
(1)  Aviation equipment transferred between property accounts will conform to the serviceability criteria 
contained in TM 1  –  1500  –  328  –  23 or the disposition instructions.  
(2)  Frequently assembled and disassembled  equipment used as training aids (condition code F or 
less) that requires depot overhaul prior to transfer or reissue.  
f.  Equipment used for BASOPS or for the original purpose operator and/or crew training that meet the 
transfer and/or turn -in standard i n accordance with paragraph 4 –9a. 
g.  For mandatory equipment transfer and turn -in procedures see DA Pam 750  –  1. 