
2–14.  Commanders at all levels  
Commanders at all levels will — 
a.  Implement and execute the CMDP in accordance with DA Pam 750  –  1. 
b.  Emphasize the importance of safety and maintenance, holding subordinates accountable for the 
conduct of maintenance operatio ns. Maintenance is a command responsibility.  
c.  Provide leadership, technical supervision, and management control of materiel maintenance pro-
grams of subordinate commands and activities.  
d.  Emphasize the conduct and supervision of PMCS  performed at unit level. Maintain materiel at the 
maintenance standard specified in paragraph 3  –  3 of this regulation and DA Pam 750  –  1. 
e.  Develop and sustain a high degree of maintenance discipline within their  commands, including man-
agement of repair parts in accordance with AR 710  –  2. 
f.  Establish, maintain, and conduct training with operators, crews, and maintenance personnel to 
properly use and maintain equipment.  
 
g.  Establish, maintain, and conduct training of leaders at all levels to supervise maintenance opera-
tions and to motivate subordinates to use and maintain equipment properly and safely.  
h.  Exercise management controls sufficient to ensure prudent and efficie nt use of all resources (peo-
ple, money, materiel, and time) required to perform assigned maintenance missions.  
i.  Conduct inspections and staff visits to determine the adequacy of command maintenance opera-
tions.  
j.  Document all faults to ensure that corr ective actions are complete; ensure accuracy of readiness re-
ports.  
k.  Provide materiel maintenance support to all assigned units and activities.  
l.  Recommend improvements to the Army maintenance system.  
m.  Comply with the provisions of AR 750  –  43 for TMDE used in support of maintenance operations and 
appoint, in writing, a TMDE Coordinator.  
n.  Ensure that the submissions of product quality deficiency reports ( PQDRs) and equipment improve-
ment recommendations ( EIRs) are accomplished in accordance wi th DA Pam 750  –  8 (ground support and 
watercraft) or DA Pam 738  –  751 (aircraft and/or aviation equipment).  
o.  Encourage establishment of an aggressive awards program for operators and maintainers.  
p.  Implement an effective quality program in accordanc e with AR 702  –  11. Quality programs will be de-
fined, quantified, specified, measured, and assessed.  
q.  Schedule all PMCS, including field -level services, by building a maintenance plan in GCSS –Army  
and perform as required by the appropriate technical manual ( TM). 
r.  Ensure prompt compliance with requirements dictated by safety of use messages ( SOUMs) in ac-
cordance with AR 750  –  6 and AR 95  –  1. 
s.  Train personnel in various battle damage asses sment and repair ( BDAR) skills annually in order to 
achieve combat resilience in wartime operations. For more detail on BDAR training, see Army Techniques 
Publication (ATP) 4  –  31. 
t.  Support SDC projects by providing proponent agency contractor person nel reasonable access to 
equipment and data relevant to the project.  
u.  Emphasize the prompt movement of unserviceable reparable items to maintenance.  
v.  Support the NMP.  
w.  Ensure modifications to assigned equipment are compliant with AR 750  –  10. 
x.  Conduct field -level maintenance ( FLM) in accordance with CBM/ PPMx procedures outlined in this 
regulation and DA Pam 750  –  1. 