
14–14.  Maintenance Assistance and Instruction Team Program/Command Maintenance 
Evaluation and Training  
a.  The MAIT/ COMET Program is designed to — 
(1)  Increase readiness of equipment and units consistent with as signed goals needed to carry out the 
Army mission.  
(2)  Assist commands in readiness inspections.  
(3)  Provide effective and responsive assistance and instruction to commanders at all levels in resolving 
logistic issues to meet mobilizations and contingency operations within organic, attached, and supported 
units.  
(4)  Augment the commander’s capability for providing maintenance and associated logistic assistance, 
instruction assistance, and instruction to organic, attached, and supported units.  
(5)  Identify systemic problems in maintenance management and provide assistance to improve man-
agement of maintenance workload at field and sustainment levels.  
b.  The DCS, G  –  4 will — 
(1)  Develop the MAIT/ COMET Program.  
(2)  Approve or disappro ve requests for program changes or deviation.  
(3)  Schedule periodic conferences between ACOM, ASCC, DRU, CONUS, and/or installation MAIT 
coordinators to highlight and resolve conflicts in policy and procedures.  
c.  Major Army commanders, except the CG, AMC; CG, TRADOC; CG, U.S. Army Criminal Investiga-
tion Command; and the Commander, Military Traffic Management Command will — 
(1)  Establish a MAIT/ COMET Program to support regular Army units.  
(2)  Establish a MAIT/ COMET Program at the Regional R eadiness Command or comparable level to 
support Army Reserve units.  
(3)  Ensure that MAITs/ COMETs are technically self -sufficient for the routine support mission.  
(4)  Provide for the temporary augmentation of MAIT/ COMET  to fill short -term or infrequent require-
ments for equipment and management skills not available from local resources.  
(5)  Ensure that sufficient funds and personnel are budgeted and allocated for MAIT/ COMET opera-
tions.  
(6)  Coordinate technical assista nce programs to provide maximum benefit to supported units with mini-
mum resources.  
(7)  Ensure that any acronym that could be misconstrued as being MAIT/ COMET is not used.  
(8)  Review MAIT/ COMET operations annually to ensure maximum program effectivene ss. 
(9)  Submit recommendations for MAIT Program improvement or deviation to DCS, G  –  4 (DALO  –  MPF), 
500 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  0500.  
(10)  Upon request, provide backup MAIT/ COMET support to units of the ARNG. Such support should 
be re ciprocal and is normally reimbursable.  
d.  The CNGB will ensure that MAIT/ COMET Program services are furnished to units of the ARNG.  
e.  Corps, divisions, separate brigades, installations, senior -level ARNG and USAR  Geographical Func-
tional Commands commanders will — 
(1)  Have operational control of assigned MAITs/ COMET.  
(2)  Ensure that MAIT/ COMET members are technically competent and possess the ability to provide 
quality assistance and instruction.  
(3)  Ensure t hat assigned MAIT/ COMET personnel receive training to maintain technical competence 
and remain current with changing logistics policies and procedures and instructional techniques. The 
MAIT/ COMET will receive new equipment training.  
(4)  Request assist ance from supporting activities and/or higher HQs to correct problems that cannot be 
corrected within the command.  
(5)  Request, through channels, modifications to TOE and/or MTOE or TDA for personnel and equip-
ment in support of the MAIT Program.  
 
(6)  Provide resources needed to carry out the MAIT/ COMET Program.  
(7)  Periodically evaluate MAIT/ COMET performance and effectiveness.  
(8)  Provide for periodic conferences between MAITs/ COMETs evaluation and inspection teams to 
highlight and resolve po ssible conflicts in interpretation of logistic policy and procedures.  
f.  Commanders of units visited will — 
(1)  Ensure that appropriate personnel, materiel, and records are available for the MAIT/ COMET during 
scheduled assistance and instruction visits.  
(2)  Take prompt action to correct identified problems.  
(3)  Request assistance from supporting activities and/o r higher HQs to correct problems that cannot be 
corrected by the unit.  
g.  For mandatory procedures relating to the MAIT/ COMET Program see DA Pam 750  –  1. 