
8–12.  General  
a.  Logistics information technology domain maintenance and life cycle management.   Logistics IT pro-
vides automation capability to the warfighter during operational and tactical operations. Sustainment is 
the provision of the logistics, personnel services,  and health service support necessary to maintain opera-
tions until mission accomplishment. See DA Pam 750  –  1 for COTS computer repair and/or upgrade meth-
odology. This section applies to the maintenance of logistics IT domain equipment identified on MTOE 
and TDA authorization documents and loaned materiel. The logistics IT domain includes LIS, GCSS –
Army, Unit Level Logistics System -Aviation (Enhanced), CSS very small aperture terminal ( VSAT), Com-
bat Service Support Automated Information Systems In terface ( CAISI), personal digital assistants, mobile 
support devices, and ACN computers. Equipment will be identified with LINs in support of life cycle man-
agement. Logistics IT equipment with LINs are readiness reportable. This section will detail Lo gistics IT 
domain maintenance and life cycle management for both field and sustainment level of maintenance. 
Each level of maintenance will address logistics IT in five support elements: 1) hardware, 2) software, 3) 
network and communications, 4) operato r functional business tasks, and 5) training.  
b.  Logistics information technology field -level maintenance.  
(1)  Operators of logistics IT systems will perform PMCS  in accordance with the manufacturer owner 
manual, hardware end user manuals and system user manuals for each LIS. This regulation provides 
Army maintenance standards and FLM instructions (see paras 3  –  3 and 3  –  11). Logistics IT equipment 
 
faults discovered during PMCS will be recorded in the approved LIS. Recording of faults may include life 
cycle management of automation equipment and the use of AIT. The use of AIT wil l enhance accuracy of 
equipment repair management, serial number tracking, and property accountability. When TELS hard-
ware becomes inoperative, the recording of an NMC fault will be entered upon recovery. Date and/or 
times will be recorded to reflect the  NMC time.  
(2)  At operator level, logistics IT, hardware becoming NMC will be evacuated to the Sustainment Auto-
mation Support Management Office ( SASMO) without delay. The operator will record the discrepancy 
upon discovery in the approved LIS. Screen  print of error messages will be printed and provided to 
SASMO to isolate or target malfunctions when possible.  
(3)  The SASMO will replace NMC equipment with TCX stock to return the customer to FMC. The NMC 
TCX item will be work ordered to sustainment -level maintenance without delay.  
(4)  Operator will take the necessary action to ensure correct power source/supply is provided during 
tactical and/or non -tactical operations. Operator will become familiar with manufacturer hardware power 
specifications. Computers and associated peripherals may require stable undisrupted power from a relia-
ble source.  
(5)  Maintenance of VSAT and CAISI hardware includes daily PMCS by the owning organization. Daily 
check of CAISI antenna for obstructions is needed to ensure continued undisrupted operations. Operator 
will ensure the Pedestal unit is properly secured during inclement weather and free from vehicle traffic. 
The 250 -foot fiber optic cord must be secure to prevent possible damage. VSAT hardware  failure will be 
reported to the SASMO.  
(6)  The SASMO will support the user and/or operator in diagnosis and restoration of logistics IT equip-
ment to an operational status. Failed LRUs will be turned into the supporting Tobyhanna Army Depot FRA 
(sust ainment level maintenance) through the SASMO.  
(7)  To the greatest extent possible, the SASMO, in coordination with the maintainer, will provide a mo-
bile support team to restore and repair logistics IT equipment onsite.  
(8)  TCX for logistics IT equip ment will be managed at FLM as follows:  
(a)  The SASMO or supporting maintenance activity will provide a replacement logistics IT LIN to unit 
personnel using a TCX asset from on -hand TCX assets and work order the inoperative ( NMC) TCX to the 
suppor ting Tobyhanna FRA maintenance activity.  
(b)  Accountability for TCX assets is maintained by the SSA on the stock record account. The SASMO 
manages TCX assets as operational exchange or swap -out. The SASMO will ensure TCX and SASMO 
MTOE  equipment remain separate. Once SASMO has an NMC TCX item, it will be work ordered to sup-
porting FRA facility without delay.  
(c)  TCX will be used to replace customer logistics IT LIN equipment and annotated on appropriate 
GCSS –Army business proce sses. The SASMO will make notations on DA Form 2407/ DA Form 5990  –  E 
when serial number item is exchanged. Unit APSR must be updated with current serial numbers. The tac-
tical situation may require that the SASMO and support operations determine best a nd safe customer 
support business practices. IUID marking of computers may enhance this procedure.  
(d)  TCX will be managed in accordance with AR 710  –  2. 
(e)  Prior to issue of TCX to a customer, the SASMO will determine fair wear and tear in accorda nce 
with paragraph 3 –11d. 
(f)  TCX is composed of NS  –  E computer systems and their associated peripheral equipment used to 
operate or support logistics IT applications. TCX will be located at the SASMO and must be 100 -percent 
deployable (see para 14  –  6). Management of NS  –  E is provided in chapter 9  of this regulation.  
(g)  When TCX is zero balance and the SASMO cannot replace or swap out hardware, the SASMO will 
work order the customer hardware to the supporting FRA and inform them that the item requires priority. 
Logistics IT systems are unit reportable and sustainment maintenance must provide increased support.  
(9)  The SASMO provides logistics IT management, plans, policies, and procedures for logistics auto-
mation functions and/or systems to the sustainment brigade, area support and backup support to the bat-
talion support battalion SASMO in the support footprint. The SASMO  will task organize to meet opera-
tional and tactical missions. The SASMO is a staff element of support operations and reports logistics IT 
equipment and tactical network status, as needed.  
(10)  Logistics IT Software management is defined as Operating a nd Application Software. The 
SASMO will receive logistics IT new and/or change TELS software updates from Communications -Elec-
tronics Command, Software Engineering Center –Lee ( CECOM, SEC –Lee). The SASMO will ensure all 
 
customers are current with Logist ics IT Software configurations. Information assurance ( IA) updates must 
be uploaded upon notification from CECOM, SEC –Lee. 
(11)  Physical security requirements of logistics IT equipment are the responsibility of both the unit and 
the SASMO.  
(12)  Information security is the responsibility of the operator and unit commander. Operators will logout 
when not physically located at GCSS –Army client workstation or LIS. Operators will complete IA training 
in accordance with AR 25  –  2. Operators will ensure  other operators do not perform tasks with current cre-
dentials of login. Do not share passwords.  
(13)  Logistics IT Hardware maintenance management is recorded and managed in APSR. All LINs 
must be entered and configured as unit MTOE and/or TDA equipm ent. The SASMO will utilize approved 
TELS to receive hardware and/or software work orders and document FLM activities.  
(14)  Units will ensure logistics IT equipment is recorded in the APSR and match approved equipment 
records.  
(15)  Warranty management of logistics IT equipment at FLM includes maintaining manufacturer integ-
rity at operator and SASMO levels. The program executive office for Enterprise Information Systems and 
the CECOM LCMC Logistics Readiness Center are the Army l ead organizations for logistics IT sustaina-
bility and are responsible for the management of Life Cycle Management of LINs.  
(16)  Any computers procured by an ACOM, ASCC, and DRU to support a logistics IT may be repaired 
using these procedures, provid ed the ACOM, ASCC, and DRU has coordinated and funded that support. 
Sustainment costs are directed to commanders who purchase this equipment. CECOM, SEC –Lee will 
provide software and functional operator support through the Customer Support Office.  
(17)  Tactical Logistics IT Network “configuration” using CSS VSAT and wireless CAISI will be provided 
by the SASMO. Network maintenance includes the planning, configuring, supervising, and controlling of 
systems authorized to operate on the tactical netw ork. CSS VSAT and CAISI is organizational property 
and may require support operations assistance in positioning of network devices throughout the area of 
operations.  
(18)  SASMO will develop a “Tactical Network Diagram” for the purpose of network troub leshooting, 
supporting theater positioned equipment requirements and geographical locations, providing support to 
incoming forces during rotational operations, documenting network security information, and detailing ge-
ographical obstacles for CAISI “line -of-sight.” The SASMO will maintain the “Tactical Network Diagram” to 
brief commanders and support operations. Network recovery is essential for GCSS –Army since equip-
ment master records are managed at the Enterprise Server. SASMO will support disconnecte d operations 
when tactical operations prevent connectivity, during actual movements and during routine “downtime” 
maintenance. The SASMO will develop and maintain a “Tactical Network Diagram” detailing CSS VSAT 
and/or CAISI geographic locations, client  workstations on the network, configuration security settings and 
internet protocol addressing, systems on network such as MC4, Transportation Coordinator’s Automated 
Information for Movements System, Movement Tracking System, and other logistics systems. The 
SASMO must maintain control to ensure maximum bandwidth.. The diagram will also detail public and 
private networks established to enhance user access. The diagram is used for network maintenance and 
hand -off to incoming rotational units.  
(19)  The SASMO will provide operator functional business task (over -the-shoulder) support to custom-
ers. The SASMO is the organic asset to provide limited support when information business process be-
comes a problem. Communications to a central help desk may be limite d during tactical operations and 
thus SASMO provides that support. The logistics community has an enormous operator and supervisor 
customer base. Communications to sustainment level support (help desks) may not be available during 
contingency operations or deployments.  
(20)  The SASMO will not perform computer internal component repair unless directed by ACOM, 
ASCC, and/or DRU G  –  4. 
(21)  Training is a maintenance enabler at the lowest level. Business process information may not find 
its way to the operator. SASMO provides that enabler to enhance automated logistics readiness through 
recovery operator training. SASMO will provide information to commanders related to sources of training. 
Resident and online, interactive baseline training a re a few of the sources. Academic training is a supervi-
sor responsibility and not a SASMO responsibility. SASMO is organized and staffed to provide limited 
customer functional support for logistics IT business activities.  
c.  Logistics information techn ology sustainment -level maintenance.   All AIS Standard Army manage-
ment information systems will be maintained as follows:  
 
(1)  Hardware maintenance at sustainment levels includes various organizations. Tobyhanna FRA pro-
vides logistics IT equipment repai r minus the CSS VSAT. Field support representatives in support of PM 
Defense Wide Transmission Systems provide sustainment maintenance for the CSS VSAT. The FRA has 
trained warranty certified technicians for specific computer products. If the FRA ha s no trained certified 
technicians, the equipment will be forwarded to the manufacturer from the FRA. The SASMO, in most 
cases, will not be required to seek warranty support. This relieves the SASMO of that responsibility. Sus-
tainment level maintenance requires the FRA to code out each LIN when not repairable this station condi-
tion exists. The FRA will contact CECOM, SEC –Lee for replacement of equipment. The FRA may man-
age RCF at each  facility. This capability provides additional recovery capability. The local FRA manager 
will determine when replacement of SASMO work ordered equipment is needed.  
(2)  The decision to repair and/or upgrade NS  –  E computers, personal digital assistants , AIT, and asso-
ciated devices will be based upon a cost -benefit analysis of replacing versus repairing and/or upgrading 
the system. With the rapid advancement in technology, the repair and/or upgrade of logistics IT equip-
ment may not be the best economic  choice. The following factors should be considered during the deci-
sion process:  
(a)  Cost of replacement from General Services Administration ( GSA) schedule.  
(b)  Warranty and/or no warranty.  
(c)  Age of the equipment (consider substantially improved technology).  
(d)  Mission impact while the system is being repaired and/or upgraded.  
(e)  Extent of repair and/or upgrade.  
(f)  Cost of repair and/or upgrade versus the MEL constraints.  
(g)  Availability of parts.  
(h)  Manpower availability versu s manpower required in accomplishing the repair and/or upgrade.  
(i)  Estimated service life after repair and/or upgrade.  
(j)  Most timely method of getting system back into the hands of the end user.  
(3)  The maintenance of MTOE and/or TDA military equip ment and standard/common and/or unique 
Army systems will have priority over the repair of locally procured logistics IT computer systems. The cu-
mulative cost to repair or upgrade a logistics IT computer must not exceed 65 percent of the replacement 
cost of the individual LRU (the central processing unit, monitor, and printer). Accounting of expenditures 
for each LRU (by serial number) is the responsibility of the repair activity. Units must be able to produce 
records when required, such as — 
(a)  Copy of buy versus repair cost -benefit analysis. If audited, the unit must be able to produce these 
reports upon direction from higher HQs.  
(b)  Cost of expenditures and work requests in support of the logistics IT computer repair and/or up-
grade effort must be maintained. If audited, the repair shop must be able to produce these reports upon 
direction from higher HQs.  
(4)  Logistics IT equipment computer will not be upgraded if the upgrade requires replacement of more 
than 50 percent of the internal major shop replaceable units or assemblies (motherboard, hard drive, disk 
drive, compact disk, central processor, and memory c hips).  
(5)  Upgrade of a logistics IT computer must retain the original system configuration integrity of fit and 
form. The upgrade may improve the function but must not change fit or form (for example, a logistics IT 
computer will not be upgraded if the  upgrade requires replacement of the external LRU case (the black 
box) or modification of the internal chassis).  
(6)  After redeployment to home station, units coordinate with SASMO, FRA, and TELS System Manag-
ers to:  
(a)  Wipe hard drives and reimage c omputers with software and all updates.  
(b)  Load home -station unit information ( UICs and DoDAACs).  
(c)  Inspect and clean computer hardware.  
(d)  Inspect and test VSATs and CAISIs in an operational scenario to confirm they are mission capable.  
(e)  Coordinate FRA repair, as required.  
(f)  Coordinate replacement of hardware classified “non -repairable” by the FRA (through SASMO 
and/or system managers).  
(7)  Residual modules will not be used to assemble additional logistics IT equipment. After repair or up-
grade of a NS  –  E computer, removed SRUs will not be retained. Cascading is authorized; residual assem-
blies may be used for an upgrade to another NS  –  E compu ter. However, this additional upgrade must be 
coordinated between the SASMO and supporting FRA. All residual parts must be sanitized and turned in 
 
to the supporting FRA for approved disposition action. During deployments, mission requirements will dic-
tate the scope of this requirement, but all modules must be accounted for. The program executive office 
for Enterprise Information Systems and the CECOM LCMC are the Army lead organizations for logistics 
IT sustainability and are responsible for the manag ement of the FRA.  
(8)  The procurement of limited additional equipment and/or software (special tools and/or diagnostic 
software to support logistics IT systems) is authorized. Owning organizations will fund this requirement. 
TMDE will not be required t o support Logistics IT equipment repair efforts.  
(9)  Any computers procured by an ACOM, ASCC, and DRU to support a logistics IT may be repaired 
using these procedures, provided the ACOM, ASCC, and DRU has coordinated and funded that support.  
(10)  The ESSC at the Tobyhanna Army Depot FRA is an integrated maintenance activity that provides 
the field with a dedicated support structure for TELS hardware. The FRA also supports tier III office auto-
mation equipment at selected installations and, when  deployed, as part of the AMC logistics support ele-
ment.  
(11)  Software support is provided by CECOM, SEC –Lee. Each TELS has a system manager for life 
cycle management of software maintenance. Updates are distributed by software change packages and 
interim change packages. Each SASMO receives these packages and must maintain baseline configura-
tion management for all customers. GCSS –Army  client workstations operating software and application 
software is also a SASMO responsibility. IA security updates must be also managed by SASMO. Mainte-
nance recovery of software includes information security. Violations of IA must be reported to the  com-
mander. This causes reduced readiness of logistics IT. 
(12)  Fielding of hardware will be coordinated with ACOM, ASCC and DRU G  –  4 (Logistics Automation 
Office).  
(13)  DA messages and/or all Army activities taskings for logistics IT system testi ng, requests for infor-
mation and status reports will be coordinated with ACOM, ASCC, and DRU G  –  4 (Logistics Automation 
Office).  
d.  Information system and network configuration management plan.   All information system and net-
work configuration managem ent plans will include strategy to ensure the latest security and application 
updates are applied in a proactive and controlled manner. Specific requirements can be found in AR 