
14–5.  Army’s Critic al Safety Item Program  
a.  An item will be identified as CSI when failure of that item could result in loss of or serious damage to 
the aircraft or weapon system, an unacceptable risk of personal injury or loss of life, or an uncommanded 
engine shutdown t hat jeopardizes safety. Damage sufficient to create a class A accident or a mishap of 
severity category I constitutes substantial damage. All CSIs  will be considered as flight safety critical air-
craft parts.  
b.  CSIs will be purchased or repaired and/or overhauled only from sources approved by AMCOM. The 
objective is to achieve competition among approved CSI suppliers and their products and to en sure that 
potentially new CSI suppliers and their products are effectively evaluated prior to delivery of CSIs to the 
Army.  
(1)  Unless otherwise authorized by the AMCOM, offers of surplus material of CSIs  will be considered 
only for procurement provided the AMCOM has approved documentation substantiating the following cri-
teria:  
(a)  Government contract QA inspections will be performed on the surplus offers to ensure the criteria 
are met and all critical characteristics identified on the component drawings, in the solicitation or contract, 
and in the QA letter of instruction are acceptable.  
(b)  Supplementary QA provisions may be provided where verification of critical safety characteristics 
cannot be pe rformed without degradation of the CSI. 
 
(2)  Local purchase of CSIs is prohibited unless justified by unusual and compelling urgency. Local pur-
chase of CSIs is not authorized unless approved by the AMCOM. When CSIs are procured locally, the 
buying act ivity will notify the cognizant integrated materiel manager.  
(3)  Prior to installation of replacement CSIs not drawn from “ready for issue” inventory (for example, 
CSIs obtained from aircraft recovery sites or other salvage and/or cannibalization activi ties), AMCOM will 
ensure that all required maintenance actions and configuration changes are in conformance with current 
fleet technical documentation and that applicable acceptance test procedures have been satisfied.  
c.  Service depots and other Governm ent organic facilities are authorized to manufacture CSIs in ac-
cordance with the following:  
(1)  Alternate source for recurring production.   Depots and other Government facilities are candidates to 
be alternate sources for routine, repetitive, production lot manufacturing of CSIs provided AMCOM con-
firms they meet all the requirements established for alternate source qualification.  
(2)  One-time manufacture.   Depots and other Government fa cilities are authorized to manufacture 
CSIs in limited quantities on a one -time basis without undergoing the full alternate source qualification 
process only when AMCOM confirms the following conditions are satisfied.  
(a)  Execution of all phases of one -time manufacture processing will be done on an emergency basis 
and will be given high priority.  
(b)  Quantities in excess of the immediate need may be manufactured where additional items are nec-
essary for testing (for example, first article, fatigue streng th, other destructive tests, etc.) or the economics 
of production, part usage, and production processes indicate this is clearly advantageous to the Govern-
ment. This authority for one -time manufacture will not be used to circumvent alternate source qualifi cation 
requirements for repeat or routine production. This one -time manufacture requirement does not apply to 
items produced to support research, development, test, or evaluation. The parts produced in accordance 
with this process will be coded, tracked, a nd disposed of as military unique CSIs.  
d.  Modifications of CSIs during installation or repair to make the item fit or function are prohibited un-
less approved by AMCOM. CSIs that need to be modified to make them fit or function properly will not be 
installed until the problem has been reported to AMCOM and disposition is provided in accordance with 
discrepant material review processes.  
e.  In the repair and/or overhaul of aviation systems and equipment, only conforming CSIs purchased 
from sources app roved by AMCOM will be used. This is regardless of whether the repair/overhaul is per-
formed by the Government or a contractor.  
f.  PQDRs will be submitted, investigated, and tracked where deficiencies are identified or suspected on 
CSIs. PQDRs will be submitted on CSIs where there is a defect or nonconforming condition detected on 
new or newly reworked Government -owned products, premature equipment failures, or products in use 
that do not fulfill their expected purpose, operation, or service because of  deficiencies in design, specifi-
cation, material, manufacturing, and workmanship. Deficiencies relating to critical characteristics or those 
that potentially impact safety will be classified as category 1 PQDRs.  
g.  When CSIs are no longer required by an  Army aviation activity, the CSIs and associated documen-
tation will be provided to the DLA Disposition Services for disposal as required by DoD 4140.1  –  R and in 
accordance with DoD 4160.21  –  M. When it is not economically practical to send consumable CSIs to De-
fense Reutilization and Marketing Service, the Army may dispose of the CSIs in the following ways:  
(1)  Prior to disposal, CSIs that are defective, nonconforming, have exceeded their life or time/use criti-
cal limits, or for which there is either no documentation or no reliable documentation regarding the manu-
facture, acquisition, use, modification, repair, or overhaul, will be mutilated beyond repair. CSIs that con-
tain military offens ive or defensive capabilities will be demilitarized in accordance with DoD 4160.28  –  M, 
Volume 1.  
(2)  Contracts requirement packages for the repair, overhaul or modification of aviation systems, sub-
systems, or equipment will include requirements for the proper disposal of CSIs.  