
8–5.  Qualification and maintenance training policy for communications security equipment  
a.  The personnel qualification requirements for train ing and certification of COMSEC materiel mainte-
nance technicians are established in AR 25  –  12. 
b.  National policy for COMSEC  materiel maintenance training standards and maintenance operations, 
as promulgated by the NSA, is contained in DoDI 8523.01. This regulation provides general policy for all 
services on the requirements and security considerations applicable to the train ing of COMSEC mainte-
nance personnel.  
c.  DoDI 8523.01 also provides criteria for security awareness training requirements for all other CE 
technicians. Such security awareness training is a prerequisite to their performing maintenance at any 
level on COMSEC equipment end items and other major CE, weapons, or information systems containing 
embedded cryptographic components.  
d.  Adherence to the COMSEC training and maintenance policies and procedures contained in the ref-
erenced publications is compulsor y. Security awareness training for all CE technicians will be docu-
mented on DD Form 2625 (Controlled Cryptographic Item ( CCI) Briefing) and copies retained in person-
nel files and unit security records. In addition, maintenance supervisors will establish a file containing a 
copy of DD Form 2625 for each assigned technician under their control in maintenance facilities author-
ized to work on systems containing cryptographic components.  
e.  The special instructions below for supply of parts and special tools must be followed:  
(1)  COMSEC maintenance activities will establish and maintained on shop stocks in accordance with 
AR 710  –  2 for both classified and unclassified repair parts.  
(2)  Cannibalization of COMSEC materiel will be accomplished according to paragraph 8 –13b, after ap-
proval by Commander, U.S. Army Communications -Security Logistics Activity, (AMEL  –  LCA  –  D), 2133 
Cushing Street, Suite 3600, Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613  –  7041.  
(3)  Tools and TMDE  required for the maintenance of COMSEC materiel are authorized by the appro-
priate MTOE, TDA, or non -tactical telecommunications development projects. They will be obtained in ac-
cordance with AR 710  –  2. 
(4)  Repairable exchange procedures for COMSEC materiel are in AR 710  –  2. 