
14–10.  Administrative storage of materiel  
a.  Administrative storage is the placement of materiel in a limited care and preservation status for short 
periods of time. This applies to MTOE and TDA units. The policy for administrative storage of TDA equip-
ment is in AR 71  –  32. Procedures for the adm inistrative storage of materiel can be found in DA Pam 
750  –  1. 
b.  ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commanders responsible for administrative storage will — 
(1)  Furnish assistance to commanders as required in carrying out an administrative storage program.  
(2)  Monitor the status of materiel in administrative storage in their commands.  
(3)  Designate an installation representative to conduct a command -level review of administrative stor-
age at 6 month intervals to reassess and revalidate the requirement.  
(4)  Forwar d results of these reviews, with appropriate recommendations, to the DCS, G  –  4 (Mainte-
nance Directorate) when circumstances are beyond the capability of the ACOM, ASCC, and DRU com-
mander to resolve.  
c.  Equipment in administrative storage will have al l major subsystems exercised as directed by appli-
cable TMs. Any faults detected will be corrected. The materiel will then be completely reprocessed as di-
rected by applicable TMs if it is to be returned to administrative storage.  
d.  Before equipment is placed in administrative storage, it must meet the maintenance standard out-
lined in paragraph 3  –  3 and DA Pam 750  –  1. 
e.  Equipment in administrative storage is accounted for in accordance with AR 710  –  2; asset reports 
are submitted under AR 710  –  3 and materiel condition status reports under AR 220  –  1 and AR 700  –  138. 
f.  Administrative storage of aircraft will be considered in the same category as short -term storage and 
accomplished in a ccordance with the applicable TM. In no case will aircraft remain continuously in admin-
istrative (short -term) storage for more than 45 days. At the end of that time, aircraft will be restored to an 
FMC status or placed in intermediate storage up to, but not exceeding, 180 days.  