
18–2.  Additive manufacturing  
a.  The ASA(ALT) in accordance with existing authorities and responsibilities will — 
(1)  Provide policy in the acquisition and use of technical data, computer software documentation, and 
computer software in support of advanced and additive manufacturing.  
(2)  Obtain, as necessary, copyright permission and/or licens es for the appropriate technical data, com-
puter software documents, and computer software to support utilization of additive manufacturing.  
(3)  Serve as the proponent for, and exercise overall supervision of Army additive and advanced manu-
facturing policy  and execution.  
(4)  Provide, through the respective product managers, configuration management of weapon systems 
when an additive manufactured part is approved to replace a configuration -controlled part.  
b.  The DCS, G  –  4 will assist the ASA(ALT) in th e development of policy integrating advanced and addi-
tive manufacturing into the Army maintenance system.  
c.  The CG, AMC will — 
(1)  Coordinate with CG, AFC to establish software, hardware, and feedstock standards for all additive 
manufacturing systems  utilized to support the supply chain for Army field and sustainment maintenance 
operations.  
(2)  Identify candidate repair parts and items for fabrication using additive manufacturing techniques for 
Army systems in sustainment.  
(3)  Document approved addi tive manufacturing items and uses in applicable TMs.  
 
(4)  Establish metrics, with support from the ASA (ALT); CG, TRADOC; and CG, AFC to track the pro-
gress of additive manufacturing implementation and its effect on readiness.  
d.  The CG, AFC will — 
(1)  Establish and maintain processes and procedures for developing, testing, and qualifying advanced 
and additive manufacturing capabiliti es. 
(2)  Establish the processes and procedures for certifying the parts produced by additive manufacturing 
technologies that meet specifications.  
(3)  Develop, evaluate, certify, and integrate advanced manufacturing technologies for use by the Army.  
(4)  Coordinate with CG, AMC to establish software, hardware, and feedstock standards for all additive 
manufacturing systems utilized for Army field and su stainment maintenance.  
(5)  Identify candidate repair parts and items for fabrication using additive manufacturing technologies 
for Army systems in the acquisition phase.  
(6)  Serve as the advisor for the development, fabrication and operation of additive manufacturing and 
supporting advanced manufacturing technologies supporting field and sustainment maintenance opera-
tions.  
e.  The CG, TRADOC will establish and maintain appropriate training and qualification programs for ad-
ditive manufacturing for enlist ed Soldiers, warrant officers, and officers.  
f.  Commanders, U.S. Army OIB activities — 
(1)  The Army’s organic depots and arsenals will develop additive and advanced capabilities consistent 
with AMC command guidance to produce OEM quality parts for use to meet obsolescence and other 
readiness requirements as required and within the abilities of available engineering support.  
(2)  Depot and Arsenal activities will establish, consistent with AMC guidance, appropriate process 
qualifications and part certif ications with the commodity aligned CCDC Center.  
(3)  Will ensure the accountability, maintenance, and safe operation of advanced and additive manufac-
turing equipment within their operations.  
(4)  Will ensure that only trained personnel operate additive manufacturing systems.  
g.  Commanders, Battalion and above will — 
(1)  Ensure the accountability, maintenance, and safe operation for additive manufacturing equipment 
in the unit’s possession.  
(2)  Ensure only trained personnel operate additive man ufacturing systems.  
(3)  Document to the data repository of record, locally developed uses of additive manufacturing to in-
clude, the item, use, quantity, and source of design.  
(4)  Nominate repair parts for fabrication using additive manufacturing technolo gies to the data reposi-
tory for engineering and technical evaluation as identified.  
(5)  Ensure subordinate commanders with supply and maintenance missions comply with additive man-
ufacturing business procedures when scheduling and performing maintenance op erations.  
(6)  Coordinate with appropriate technical, engineering, and legal expertise, as necessary, to effectively 
manage risk when utilizing additive manufacturing.  
h.  Authorized uses and approvals for the following — 
(1)  Commands are authorized to use  Army approved additive manufacturing technologies to produce 
or fabricate items whose fit, form, and function characteristics require no analysis of performance impacts 
prior to use.  
(2)  Use of additive manufacturing technologies will be in a manner that  protects patents, trademarks, 
or other forms of intellectual property in accordance with DFAR subpart 227.7102  –  2 and DFAR subpart 
7103  –  5.