
14–13.  National Maintenance Program  
a.  General.   The NMM is responsible for managing all sustainment -level reparables, including selected 
field reparables. All sustainment -level reparables will be repaired to the national standard that is defined 
as the highest published standard. Any exceptions, such as requirements to support contingency opera-
tions, must be approved by the NMM. The NMP distributes sustainment maintenance workload across 
non-depot activities  based on national need through a national requirements determination process. Im-
plementation is the responsibility of the CG, AMC, with guidance and oversight by DCS, G  –  4 (Mainte-
nance Directorate).  
b.  National Maintenance Plan purpose.  
(1)  Enhances  responsiveness to sustainment maintenance requirements generated during peacetime, 
contingency, and wartime conditions by linking all levels of sustainment maintenance under the appropri-
ate commodity command.  
(2)  Implements the Army policy of repair as t he primary SOS.  
(3)  Implements the highest published standard as the national standard and the single standard for 
those items repaired and returned to the supply system.  
(4)  Optimizes workload across existing maintenance capabilities and allows for red uctions in capital 
investments to maintenance facilities and TMDE used in maintenance operations.  
(5)  Develops and maintains a database of maintenance facilities, both organic and contract, and is re-
sponsible for ensuring minimal redundancy of maintenanc e capabilities and capacities.  
(6)  Ensures all repairs will be demand supported and based on Army requirements. The program will 
not repair items in long supply.  
(7)  Consolidates all sustainment maintenance workload in depots, on national maintenance con tracts 
or at non -depot maintenance activities.  
c.  Responsibilities.  
(1)  The NMM is the focal point for all AMC  Integrated Materiel Management Center requirements and 
for ensuring that the Army sustainment maintenance workload is based on national need. Responsibilities 
include — 
(a)  Ensuring that sustainment maintenance providers possess a documented quality manag ement sys-
tem. 
(b)  Ensuring that sustainment maintenance providers possess the facilities, tools, TMDE, skills, and 
workforce required to meet the national standard.  
(c)  Determining, in coordination with ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs, based on need, the non -depot activ-
ities to be surveyed for qualified national provider qualification.  
 
(d)  Balancing repair capacity, cost, and production schedules to meet total Army requirements, includ-
ing requirements to support repair parts no longer in production and repair  parts for older equipment in 
the Army inventory.  
(2)  The AMC MSCs will have management responsibility to consolidate all maintenance requirements 
and present them to the NMM, to technically certify sources of repair and to develop appropriate mainte-
nance procedures to meet the Army standard.  