
5–7.  Depot maintena nce source of repair selection  
a.  The weapon system PM and/or PEO and the MSC will adhere to current public laws, Department of 
Defense directives ( DoDDs), and Army policies in determining a depot maintenance SOR. Planning for 
depot maintenance SOR will commence at Milestone A. In accordance with DoDI 4151.24, a logical deci-
sion process will be used to assign the depot maintenance SOR to either an Army, inter -Service, or con-
tract source. This process must address legislative and DoD policy require ments such as core depot 
maintenance, the 50 percent maximum limit on contracted depot maintenance workload, and competition 
for reassignment of workload valued at $3 million or greater.  
b.  To the extent legislation and policy permit, workload determined not to be needed to sustain depot 
maintenance core capability will be evaluated to determine whether such workload is appropriate for con-
tracting, including contracting under full and open competition, where appropriate. The best -value (the 
most cost -effec tive alternative) depot maintenance support will be established from among inter -Service, 
intra-Service, and contract sources. In the case of systems and equipment used by more than one 
 
military Service or DoD agency, workload must be consolidated into a single common or Joint Service 
contract consistent with the readiness requirements of the Army.  
c.  All new depot maintenance workload and planned changes of performance location for existing 
workload will be subject to a Joint Serv ice review and SOR assignment to a specific depot facility in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Joint depot maintenance program. Changes of performance location 
from an organic depot -level activity to another SOR must comply with 10 USC 2469. This r equires that 
changes in such workload with a value of $3 million or more to be made using merit -based selection pro-
cedures for competitions among all depot -level activities of the DoD or competitive procedures for compe-
titions among private and public sec tor entities.  
d.  The PM and/or PEO will, in conjunction with the MSC inter -Service support office, identify the re-
quirement for the depot maintenance assignment. AMC, as the responsible office for depot maintenance, 
will take action to initiate the ap propriate Joint Service review. AMC will track the Joint Service review to 
completion and will ensure all necessary inter service coordination actions are properly executed.  
e.  Upon completion of the Joint Service review and release of the Joint Service decision, AMC will no-
tify the appropriate PM and/or PEO and MSC inter -Service support office of the implementation actions 
necessary.  
f.  Each PM and/or PEO will ensure that the decision analysis, including depot core, risk, and best 
value analysis, supporting the SOR decision is performed and documented in the Milestone ASARC ac-
quisition decision memorandum. The results will be presented and/or reviewed at the Milestone B 
ASARC. Documentation should be updated, as appropriate, throughout the life cycle of the system.  
g.  The DCS, G  –  4 (DALO  –  MP) will — 
(1)  Review and validate core logistics analysis, core depot assessment, and depot SOR documents, 
ensuring all elements of the core depot requirements capabilities and sustaining workload and depo t SOR 
processes are properly addressed in each document in accordance with current DoD and Army policy.  
(2)  Act as DCS, G  –  4 representative to the Depot Maintenance Inter -Service Review.  