
6–13.  Maintenance training aircraft  
a.  General.   Maintenance training aircraft, these are aircraft employed for ground  technical training that 
do not require airborne operations. Training aircraft are further classified as follows:  
(1)  Category A.   Aircraft that can be returned to flyable status through minimum maintenance and mod-
ification. This category covers aircraft assigned on a temporary basis not to exceed 365 days to meet 
special training requirements. Extensions may be granted by AMCOM.  
(2)  Category B.   Aircraft that is capable of ground operation if all components are installed. Category B 
aircraft can be returned to flyable status by sustainment rebuild or overhaul.  
(3)  Maintenance training airframes.   Retired and condemned aircraft used to train maintenance per-
sonnel. Aircraft in this category are retired or have been damaged or deteriorated beyond the MEL estab-
lished in TB 43  –  0002  –  3. Classification to maintenance training airframe status results in the aircraft being 
permanently grounded. Maintenance training airframes will be reported on DA Form 1352 (Army Aircraft 
Inventory, Status and Flying Tim e). 
(4)  Maintenance parts task trainers.   These are portions of condemned aircraft (such as the cockpit, 
tail boom or cabin section) used to train Soldiers on maintenance tasks. They are not reportable on DA 
Form 1352.  
(5)  Maintenance training devices.   Aeronautical equipment other than Category A or Category B air-
craft or maintenance training airframes that are used to facilitate aircraft maintenance training. Items in 
this category range from uninstalled elements to mockups of major assemblies or funct ional groups.  
b.  Training aircraft responsibilities.  
(1)  Commander, AMCOM will — 
(a)  Provide aircraft for use as maintenance training aircraft based upon known requirements and as 
directed by AMC.  
(b)  Submit recommendations through AMC to the DCS, G  –  4 (Maintenance Directorate) for approval to 
classify and reclassify aircraft for maintenance training.  
(c)  Control current inventory of all maintenance training aircraft and distribute maintenance -training air-
craft to meet training requirements.  
(d)  Provide required repair parts support and MWO kits for Category A and Category B maintenance 
training aircraft to the full extent required to complete maintenance.  
(e)  Provide required repair parts support for maintenance training that will ensure accomplishment of 
the training mission. Serviceable high -dollar value items (for example, engines, transmissions, rotor 
blades, and propellers) are not authorized except when approved by AMCOM.  
(f)  Develop funding requirements f or resourcing repair of crash -damaged aircraft for use as mainte-
nance trainers.  
(g)  Provide training activities with unserviceable or crash -damaged components as they become avail-
able.  
(2)  CG, FORSCOM; CG, TRADOC; major overseas commanders; and CNGB  will— 
(a)  Present projected FY consolidated requirements for maintenance training aircraft, maintenance 
trainers, components, and test equipment. Institutional training equipment requirements for the subse-
quent FY will be obtained from annual requireme nts presented to the DCS, G  –  3/5/7 in May and/or June 
each year.  
(b)  Receive, evaluate, and provide command approval or disapproval of all requests for maintenance 
training aircraft received from subordinate activities.  
(c)  Ensure that all maintenance training aircraft assigned to subordinate activities are maintained under 
this regulation.  
(d)  Prior to repairs being accomplished, determine if crash -damaged aircraft or aircraft that is not eco-
nomically feasible to repair can be exchanged for Category A  or Category B aircraft already assigned to a 
training activity.  
(3)  Commanders of activities possessing maintenance training aircraft will — 
(a)  Maintain maintenance -training aircraft as prescribed herein.  
(b)  Report to AMCOM all excess maintenance tra ining aircraft.  
 
(4)  Provide monthly reports of all maintenance training aircraft in their possession on DA Form 1352 in 
accordance with AR 700  –  138. 
c.  Maintenance policy.  
(1)  Category A aircraft will be maintained in accordance with applicable publications to a standard so 
that the aircraft can be returned to a completely operational flight status by the ASB within 60 working -
days. Category A aircraft should meet transfer serv iceability standards outlined in TM 1  –  1500  –  328  –  23 
prior to shipment to or from a designated training activity.  
(2)  Configuration control of Category B maintenance training aircraft will be maintained through incor-
poration of all applicable MWOs an d, to the extent possible, ensure that training is consistent with the 
field operational aircraft systems. All systems and/or components required for program of instruction will 
be maintained operational and updated in accordance with the latest applicable  MWOs. Removal and 
turn-in of systems and/or components not required for program of instruction may be approved by 
AMCOM. Category B aircraft and components will be maintained so they can be returned to flight opera-
tional status by sustainment overhaul o r repair. Aircraft transfer standards are not mandatory for transfer 
to sustainment or any activity authorized the use of Category B aircraft.  
(3)  Serviceable components and/or systems not covered in paragraph  6–13d(1)  will be preserved and 
periodically inspected, operated in accordance with appropriate TMs, and re -preserved.  
(4)  Components of maintenance training airframes that are not required for training purposes should 
be removed and returned to susta inment through normal supply channels. DD Form 1577  –  2 will be at-
tached to each item. Disposition is in accordance with AR 710  –  2. 
(5)  AMCOM  authorizes the control, classification, and reclassification of aircraft defined as mainte-
nance training aircraft.  
(6)  A predetermined quantity of aircraft will be assigned to TRADOC as maintenance training aircraft to 
satisfy initial distribution requi rements. Total requirements will be satisfied by subsequent phased deliver-
ies as aircraft become available from production or from the operational fleet.  
(7)  Category A and Category B maintenance training aircraft and aircraft designated as maintenance 
training airframes will be reported on DA Form 1352 in accordance with AR 700  –  138. 
(8)  Uneconomically reparable, crash -damaged, or retired aircraft may be used, when economically fea-
sible, as a source for maintenance training airframes that will, whenev er possible, be used as a replace-
ment for Category A and Category B maintenance training aircraft and then be made available for return 
to flyable status, should a requirement exist. Any item removed from a crash -damaged aircraft for reuse 
will meet the cr iteria established by paragraphs 6  –  9 and 6  –  10. Final airframe classification will be made 
by AMCOM using TB 43  –  0002  –  3. 
(9)  Category A and Category B maintenance train ing aircraft that are no longer required will be re-
ported to HQ, TRADOC. HQ, TRADOC will report excess maintenance training aircraft to HQ, AMCOM.  
(10)  Maintenance training airframes and devices that are no longer required will be reported to HQ, 
TRADOC. Excess maintenance training airframes and devices will be reported by HQ, TRADOC to 
AMCOM for disposition instructions.  
(11)  Categories assigned to  maintenance training aircraft will not be re -designated without AMCOM 
approval.  
(12)  Aircraft items recorded on DA Form 2408  –  17 (Aircraft Inventory Record), when not required for 
training purposes on Category B maintenance training aircraft, will be returned to stock using normal sup-
ply procedures.  
d.  Controlled exchange.  
(1)  Controlled exchange of serviceable components from Category A and Category B maintenance 
training aircraft to any flyable aircraft is authorized. These components must be deter mined serviceable or 
economically reparable by a qualified inspector and must be of proper configuration and have all modifi-
cations applied. The component or assembly removed from a Category A or Category B maintenance air-
craft will be replaced with a like  component. These actions must receive concurrence from AMCOM.  
(2)  Controlled exchange of components from maintenance training airframes or maintenance training 
devices may be made only between other maintenance training airframes or maintenance training  de-
vices. Removal or installation of components listed in TB 1  –  1500  –  341  –  01 will call for the submission of 
DA Form 2410 (Component Removal/Repair/Install/Gain/Loss Record) in accordance with DA Pam 
738  –  751 and TM 1  –  1500  –  328  –  23. 
(3)  Accountability of demands/consumption will be maintained in the unit shop stock for controlled ex-
change transactions.  
 
e.  Maintenance of equipment record folder.  
(1)  Equipment logbooks and historical records will be maintained in accordance with DA Pam 7 38  –  751 
and TM 1  –  1500  –  328  –  23 for all training aircraft, maintenance training airframes, and maintenance training 
devices.  
(2)  Ground operating time will be recorded on DA Form 2408  –  13 (Aircraft Status Information Record). 
A combination of fligh t time and ground run time will be used to determine time change requirements. Re-
quests for time change extensions of components on ground -run aircraft will be submitted to AMCOM for 
disposition.  
(3)  DA Form 2408  –  18 (Equipment Inspection List) inspect ions are required on Category A and Cate-
gory B aircraft unless a waiver is granted by AMCOM.  
Chapter 7  
Maintenance of Watercraft and Rail Equipment  
Section I  
Watercraft  