
6–2.  Army National Guard sustainment maintenance  
a.  All sustainment mainten ance for ARNG end items (except aircraft) will be on an exchange or repair -
and-return basis. Surface equipment that requires unscheduled or urgent sustainment repair will be re-
ported to NGB –Maintenance Office for consideration on a case -by-case basis. Ar my surface equipment 
will be selected for sustainment repair under the following criteria:  
(1)  All major end items that are type classified standard and meet condition requirements as deter-
mined by the commodity command concerned.  
 
(2)  All major end items  type classified standard in an unserviceable condition beyond the capability of 
sustainment maintenance.  
(3)  Major end items that have a record of frequent maintenance failure requiring extensive repairs and 
for which the repair of recurring failures, if  overhauled at a depot facility, would be cost effective.  
(4)  Combat vehicles will be selected for sustainment repair on a condition basis (not on mileage) when 
TI by sustainment maintenance indicates that depot repair is in the best interest of economy and readi-
ness.  
(5)  Towed and self -propelled artillery weapons, mortars, and recoilless rifles will be selected for sus-
tainment repair in accordance with TMs.  
b.  The following will be provided for current year requirements:  
(1)  The NGB Logistics Mainte nance Branch will provide the commodity commands with the DD Form 
448 (Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request) for major end items and calibration services and/or 
repair support.  
(2)  Calibration services and red tag repair of TMDE will be funded by the NGB and provided by the 
Army TMDE activity to the States.  
(3)  A schedule for sustainment work input will be provided to e ach State concerned. The State will pro-
vide the necessary forms and shipping documents. The State will retain ownership of the item during the 
entire repair -and-return process, or the item may be exchanged. Transportation costs of a major item to 
and from sustainment facility will be coordinated by NGB Army Logistics Division.  
(4)  Reconditioning and repair of combat vehicle tracks and road wheels and related rubber products 
will be funded directly by the NGB.  
(5)  For repairs and/or services for non -major items provided through the AMC sustainment system, re-
quests for secondary items and fuel tank recoating will require units to do the following:  
(a)  For field -level or sustainment -level maintenance assistance stat es will request support from the 
commodity command having responsibility for the item.  
(b)  For aviation field support, they should request assistance through NGB  –  AVN or their regional Avia-
tion Classification and Repair Activity Depot ( AVCRAD).  
Section  II 
Army Aircraft  