
2–23.  Materiel developers  
MATDEVs, as defined by AR 700  –  127, will — 
a.  Coordinate the materiel maintenance considerations to be included in requirement documents with 
CAPDEVs, including the LCMCs.  
b.  Ensure that the materiel -fielding plan meets the requir ements of the Army maintenance system.  
c.  Ensure that reliability, availability, and maintainability are included in design parameters and demon-
strated during operational testing.  
d.  Ensure that reliability centered maintenance ( RCM) is a basic precept in developing the mainte-
nance concept (see Aeronautical Design Standard ( ADS) –79–Handbook ( HDBK)) for aircraft and/or avia-
tion systems).  
e.  Determine, in coordination with the designated MSC, the SOR for sustainment -level maintenance 
(such as organic or contract).  
f.  Ensure product support management and/or product support analysis results are incorporated in ini-
tial maintenance planning and/or development concepts.  
g.  Ensure trained personnel, TMDE, facilities, specialized tools with containerizati on (if applicable), 
support equipment, repair parts, and publications are available when the system is delivered to the user.  
h.  Participate in planning and conducting logistics demonstrations and operational maintenance test-
ing. 
i.  Comply with the polic y and responsibilities for type classification, material release, fielding, and 
transfer process as described in AR 770  –  2 and AR 770  –  3 in the performance and management of the 
material maintenance function.  
j.  Establish and monitor MWO programs in accordance with AR 750  –  10. 
k.  Ensure mandatory modifications to Army equipment are developed, tested, funded, applied, and re-
ported to the Modification Management Information System ( MMIS) in accordance with AR 750  –  10. 
l.  Develop BDAR techniques, procedures, and related tool and materiel requirements in accordance 
with CAPDEVs. The developers will also incorporate BDAR concepts into new materiel development.  
m.  Determine the RCF maintenance requirement us ing the methodology in table 14  –  1 and coordinate 
requirements with ASA (ALT), DCS, G  –  4, DCS, G  –  8, and DCS, G  –  3/5/7.  
n.  RCF requirements must be documented in the LCSP and be reviewed and updated every 5 years or 
sooner if dictated by operations availability and readiness requirements.  
 
o.  Incorporate PPMx technologies and concepts in the design, development, and improvement  of 
equipment where it is technically feasible and cost -effective based upon a Joint return on investment as-
sessment lead by the MATDEV and supported by AMC, AFC, and DCS, G  –  4 (see ADS  –  79  –  HDBK for 
aircraft and/or aviation systems) and AR 700  –  127. 
p.  Ensure that performance -based product support strategies are compatible with Army maintenance 
doctrine and that all statutory and regulatory requirements governing depot maintenance are preserved 
(see AR 700  –  127).  
q.  Ensure that data collecte d from all levels of maintenance are analyzed and used for reliability im-
provement and updating logistical and manpower data bases used in determining Army force structure 
maintenance requirements purposes.  
r.  Design equipment with the need for a minimum number of common and special tools.  
s.  Ensure development of a system or commodity -based special tools SKOTs as directed by the 
maintenance CAPDEV and will submit requirements and documentation for special tools to the mainte-
nance CAPDEV for review in accordance with AR 700  –  127. 
t.  Establish and maintain an Age Exploration Program (AEP) as part of the Reliability Centered Mainte-
nance strategy. The AEP involves examination throughout the lifetime a system and focusing on the sys-
tems individual component life cycle to determine limited overhaul intervals which optimize equipment life 
cycles. Limited conditions based overhauls only address immediate failure of components and other nec-
essary parts to achieve performance standards consist ent with complete overhaul but at less cost.  
u.  Include requirements for compliance with Federal environmental quality standards for equipment 
procured and supported by the Army in accordance with AR 200  –  1. 
v.  Coordinate BOIP  feeder data with the CAPDEV to include the LCMC to facilitate planning for distri-
bution of operator and support personnel and support equipment in accordance with AR 71  –  32, AR 
570  –  4, and DA Pam 700  –  27. 
w.  Implement management controls to ensur e support of the manpower requirements criteria program 
in accordance with guidelines outlined in AR 71  –  32, AR 70  –  1, and associated publications.  
x.  Ensure the BOIP feeder data documents the major item system map.  
y.  Ensure that maintenance float requirements established for equipment being fielded are based on 
usage data for similar items or best available engineering data.  
z.  Coordinate with ASA (ALT), DCS, G  –  3/5/7, DCS, G  –  4, and DCS, G  –  8 to ensure RCF requirements 
are documented at AMC level in conjunction with materiel fielding plan development.  
aa.  Provide procedures and help desk assistance to facilitate the repair or replacement of automation 
system tactical computer exchange ( TCX) items authori zed for repair or replacement at the field or sus-
tainment maintenance level.  
bb.  Ensure requirements for lubricant analytical devices or instruments are coordinated with ASC PM 
AOAP.  
cc.  Establish sustainment maintenance support programs for a new sys tem and its secondary items so 
that the depot is ready to perform depot maintenance not later than 4 years after initial operating capabil-
ity (IOC).  
dd.  Ensure the acquisition and supportability strategies address CBRN survivability for each Army mis-
sion critical system required to withstand nuclear weapons effects and/or chemical, biological, radiologi-
cal, and environmental contamination. Ensure preservation of survivability features during the system’s 
entire life cycle.  
ee.  Comply with the policy and  responsibilities for the development, authentication, printing, distribu-
tion, and sustainment process for technical/equipment publications as described in AR 25  –  30. 
ff.  MATDEVs will update TMs for programs before the system is transferred to sustain ment.  
gg.  MATDEVs will support PPMx in accordance with AR 700  –  127. 
hh.  MATDEVs will coordinate test equipment and AT/Off Platform diagnostic requirements with the 
PD  –  TMDE per AR 750  –  43. 
 
Chapter 3  
Maintenance Policies and Structure  
Section I  
Maintenance Policies  