
5–1.  General  
a.  This chapter provides policy and responsibilities governing sustainment maintenance.  
b.  The term sustainment (depot) maintenance consists of materiel maintenance or repair requiring the 
overhaul, upgrading, or rebuilding of end items, parts, assemblies, or subassemblies and the testing and 
reclamation of equipment as necessary, regardless of the source of funds for the maintenance or repair 
or the location at which the maintenance or repair is performed. The term also includes the following:  
(1)  All aspects of software maintenance classified by DoD as of  as depot maintenance and 
repair.  
(2)  Interim contractor support ( ICS) or CLS (or any similar contractor support), to the extent that such 
support is for the performance of services described above.  
c.  In accordance with 10 USC 2460, depot maintenance will not include the proc urement of major 
modifications or upgrades of weapon systems that are designed to improve system performance. A major 
upgrade program covered by this exception could continue to be performed by private or public sector ac-
tivities. The term also will not in clude the procurement of parts for safety modifications. However, it will 
include the installation effort for the excluded modifications and upgrades mentioned above.  
d.  For the characteristics of sustainment maintenance see DA Pam 750  –  1. 
e.  MATDEVs will establish depot maintenance support programs for a new system and its secondary 
items so that the depot is ready to perform depot maintenance not later than 4 years after IOC. 
f.  Sustainment maintenance will be performed by selected TDA industrial activities operated by the 
Army, other military Services or Government agencies, or by private -sector firms.  
g.  When directed by the NMM, overseas sustainment maintenance will be performed within the theater 
of operations to achieve the readiness or sust ainability goals of deployed forces or when more cost -effec-
tive. When evaluating cost effectiveness, RCF, spare parts, facilities, transportation, plant equipment, test 
equipment, personnel, supply pipeline costs, and the impact on the CONUS base, includ ing mobilization 
and/or surge capability, will be considered.  
h.  Overseas sustainment maintenance will include the cost accounting and production reporting provi-
sions of DFAS  –  IN Manual 37  –  100. 
i.  An overseas FRA may be established by AMC when it ha s been determined, in coordination with the 
appropriate theater commander, that in -country, forward sustainment support by sustainment personnel 
or by CLS operations is needed to sustain mission critical systems or components.  