
2–18.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Materiel Command  
The CG, AMC as the installation and national maintenance manager ( NMM) for the Army, will — 
a.  With regard to planning, programming, and budgeting:  
(1)  Develop Army sustainment -level maintenance concepts and support systems, with participation by 
the DCS, G  –  4 (Maintenance Directorate), CAPDEVs, and MATDEVs.  
(2)  Manage the sustainment maintenance system, including forward repair activities ( FRAs).  
 
(3)  Provide timely and accurate cost, readiness, and maintenance data for base commercial equip-
ment.  
(4)  Host an annual synchronization meeting with all ACOMs, ASCCs, and DCS, G  –  4 for QMTO MDEP 
POM requirements.  
(5)  Program and budget DA-approved  SDC projects.  
(6)  Provide GO or senior executive senior members to the Army OIBCB to serve as the chief operating 
officer and one additional board member.  
(7)  Co-chair the OIBEC with DCS, G  –  4 (Chief, Sustainment Maintenance D ivision) (see chap 5 ). 
(8)  Review and verify LCMC, ACOM, ASCC, and DRU nominations for fielded equipment and calcu-
late the total RCF requirement using the formula in DA Pam 750  –  1 and submit requirem ents to the DCS, 
G  –  4 (Sustainment Maintenance Division) to begin the staffing process for the AAO.  
(9)  Submit sustainment - and FLM funding requirements in accordance with the Sustaining Program 
Evaluation Group ( PEG) POM programming guidance.  
b.  With regard to programs:  
(1)  Establish, operate, and manage the Logistics Assistance Program ( LAP) in accordance with AR 
700  –  4. 
(2)  Ensure that spares and repair parts are available in sufficient quantities to support materiel 
throughout its life cycle.  
(3)  Manage the Army Warranty Program (see AR 700  –  139).  
(4)  Manage the Army Chemical Agent Resistant Coating ( CARC) and/or camouflage painting pattern 
(CPP) programs.  
(5)  Establish internal business rules and/or procedures necessary to implem ent the SRA and/or one -
time repair ( OTR) processes within AMC and supporting activities. Life Cycle Management Commands 
(LCMC) may program and authorize Materiel Support Command –Korea ( MSC  –  K) and Theater Logistics 
Support Center –Europe ( TLSC  –  E) to perform sustainment -level repairs of major end items after validat-
ing capability and repair requirement to augment readiness enabling forward sustainment -level repair pro-
grams.  
(6)  Manage the depot repair and return program (see para 5  –  10). 
(7)  As the Army leading organization for the National Tire Retread Program, establish a worldwide pro-
gram for management of aircraft and vehicle tires.  
(8)  Manage the DoD inter-Service, interdepartmental and interagency maintenance support programs 
within the Army.  
(9)  Manage and execute the NMP.  
(10)  Serve as the Army lead for the MWO program in accordance with AR 750  –  10. 
(11)  Manage and maintain Army pre -position ed stocks ( APS).  
c.  With regard to data collection and warehousing:  
(1)  Support DCS, G  –  4 requirements for logistical data elements necessary to meet DCS, G  –  3/5/7 
maintenance force structure requirements determination.  
(2)  Responsible for program operations and execution of equipment reset operations.  
(3)  Serve, through ASC, as the Army’s lead materiel integrator.  
d.  With regard to the AOAP:  
(1)  Manage the operation and execution of the AOAP, by –– 
(a)  Designating the ASC as the Army PM for the AOAP.  
(b)  Implementing this regulation and AR 700  –  132. 
(c)  Incorporating quality assurance ( QA) provisions and technician qualification required by the AOAP 
performance work statements ( PWSs) used in solicitation documents  for contract operation of AOAP la-
boratories. Contracting officers reviewing vendor proposals for AOAP laboratory operation will obtain PM 
AOAP technical review and approval prior to acceptance of the proposal.  
(2)  Ensure AMC LCMCs — 
(a)  Recommend s ystems for inclusion in the AOAP and sampling intervals for these systems. The 
PEO and/or PM for the specific weapon systems will approve and submit the recommendations to the PM 
AOAP.  
(b)  Submit recommendations any time during the year. At the begin ning of each calendar year, the PM 
AOAP will facilitate a formal review process.  
(c)  Configure systems to use oil -sampling valves or coordinate with PEOs and/or PMs for retrofit dur-
ing depot -scheduled timeframes, where feasible.  
 
(d)  Coordinate with PEOs and/or PMs to ensure embedding of inline and/or online diagnostics capabili-
ties in future systems as technology allows.  
(e)  Provide information to AMC LCMCs and MATDEVs  on changes to laboratory capabilities and com-
ponent metal wear criteria.  
(f)  Establish AOAP certification criteria for both contract and organic laboratories, as described in AR 
700  –  132 and TM 38  –  301  –  1. 
(g)  Conduct unannounced annual QA labora tory assistance and assessment review visits to review 
laboratory operations and performance and validate AOAP laboratory certification compliance.  
(h)  Serve as the functional manager for the Joint Oil Analysis Standard Inter -Service System, the 
OASIS Da ta System. The PM AOAP serves as the Army point of contact with the Navy for inter -Service 
standardization of Oil Analysis Standard Inter -Service System laboratory software.  
(i)  Approve equipment oil sampling intervals through coordination with LCMCs, PEOs and/or PMs, and 
the ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs.  
(j)  Ensure procedures prescribed in TM 38  –  301  –  1 regarding certification of test instruments, laborato-
ries, and personnel are consistent with requirements for AOAP laboratories.  
(k)  Plan, program, budget, procure, and deploy mobile AOAP laboratories in support of operations for 
the Regular Army.  
(l)  Serve as technical advisor for the development, fabrication, and operation of AOAP mobile labora-
tory facilities.  
(m)  Designate AOAP labo ratory regional support areas and facilitate laboratory establishment and clo-
sures in coordination with appropriate ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs.  
(n)  Serve as the technical advisor for reviewing, recommending, and planning the establishment or clo-
sure of AOAP laboratories.  
(o)  Serve as technical advisor and facilitator for noncontract AOAP laboratory personnel training and 
for contractors, at the contractor’s expense.  
(p)  Host an annual in -process review with the DCS, G  –  4, ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs, AMC LCMCs, 
PEOs, and/or PMs to review program operations, requirements, and coordinating program out -year plan-
ning objectives. This includes a review of systems and/or components enrolled, sampling intervals, and 
wear -metal criteria.  
(q)  Develop and pu blish, no later than 45 days following the end of the FY, an annual executive sum-
mary outlining program operations, benefits, and costs.  
(3)  Serve as proponent for technical bulletin (TB) 43  –  0211 and as Army coordinating authority for 
AOAP  procedures and material contained in all Army and Joint Service regulations, TBs, pamphlets, and 
field manuals ( FMs).  
e.  Manage TMDE functions as the Army lead organization. Manage and execute all responsibilities for 
coordinating requirements for TMD E procurement, worldwide calibration, and repair of general and se-
lected special -purpose TMDE (see AR 750  –  43). 
f.  With regard to requirements development:  
(1)  Manage and staff requirements for the MAC.  
(2)  Develop and provide depot maintenance OP  –  29 results to the DCS, G  –  4. 
(3)  Conduct sustainment maintenance requirements reviews with LCMCs.  
(4)  Perform initial provisioning in accordance with AR 700  –  18. 
g.  With regard to supporting major subordinate commands ( MSCs):  
(1)  Provide mainte nance support to field -level units, as necessary.  
(2)  Evaluate and resolve technical and maintenance problems that units provide in deficiency reports.  
(3)  Manage and update SKOT component listings.  
(4)  Establish theater foundation Army field support brigade or logistics task force for coordination of 
AMC maintenance support provided to the theater.  
(5)  In coordination with HQ, FORSCOM, maintain LBE and HST.  
(6)  Manage program operations and execution for LBE sustainment.  
(7)  Manage pr ogram operations and execution for HST sustainment.  
h.  With regard to sustainment maintenance:  
(1)  Ensure LCMCs and the depots comply with Section 2464, Title 10, United States Code (10 USC 
2464) and current core policy.  
(2)  Maintain RCF assets in a ccordance with this regulation.  
 
(3)  In coordination with ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs, develop specific RCF sustainment and FLM crite-
ria for RCF induction.  
(4)  Maintain accountability of RCF assets in LMP and document float transactions in GCSS –Army.  
(5)  Establish a written agreement with supporting field maintenance activities to maintain RCF assets 
according to the Army maintenance standard written in paragraph 3  –  3 and DA Pam 750  –  1. 
(6)  Ensure depots and supporting field maintenance activities maintain RCF assets according to the 
maintenance standard in paragraph 3  –  3 of this regulation and DA Pam 750  –  1.  
(7)  Account for RCF on the APSR.  
(8)  Report RCF maintenance readiness in a separate report —monthly —in accordance with AR 
700  –  138. 
(9)  Program funding requirements for the sustainment of RCF assets.  
(10)  Overall responsibility for consolidating and submitting the DMWD requirements, 50/50 rule, report 
to DCS, G  –  4 (Sustainment Maintenance Division).  
(11)  Assign sustainment subject matter experts to support MATDEVs in development of depot support 
analys is and strategies.  
(12)  Ensure compliance with NMP business procedures when scheduling and executing sustainment 
maintenance operations.  
i.  With regard to Installation Maintenance Support:  
(1)  Provide BASOPS  and tactical sustainment maintenance; CPC; condition classification of materiel; 
installation MWO and warranty programs; TMDE calibration and repair support; and NMPs at the installa-
tion and/or garrison LRC/ AFSBn.  
(2)  Provide timely and accurate co st, readiness, and maintenance data for base commercial equip-
ment.  
(3)  Oversee installation LRC/ AFSBn and the performance of the LRC/ AFSBn Maintenance Division in 
its role as a provider of sustainment and evacuated FLM support to LBE, equipment rese t, HST, NMP, 
and other equipment and components. Supervise maintenance operations at all levels within the com-
mand.  
(4)  Provide timely and accurate cost, readiness, and maintenance data to management systems.  
(5)  Acquire and maintain a self-sufficient capability and capacity for field and selected sustainment 
maintenance provider support of combat, combat support, and CSS elements.  
(6)  Program funds to sustain equipment readiness and prioritize any unfinanced requirements.  
(7)  Comply with materiel maintenance standards and maintenance related logistical performance and 
readiness standards.  
(8)  Establish a warranty control office and/or officer to implement the Army Warranty Program in ac-
cordance with AR 700  –  139. 
(9)  Comply with al l local, regional, and national regulations governing the inspection and maintenance 
requirements for prevention of pollution. For more information, see AR 200  –  1. 
(10)  Provide air traffic control materiel support.  
(11)  Establish effective CPC program s for assigned equipment in accordance with AR 750  –  59. 
(12)  Determine if reimbursement for fabrication services of field or sustainment maintenance activities 
is authorized.  
(13)  Carry out quality programs under the provisions of AR 70  –  1 for assign ed maintenance and cali-
bration operations.  
(14)  Designate point of contacts for the SRA, MWO, AOAP, UIT, and maintenance float programs.  
(15)  Ensure that the LRC/ AFSBn provides maintenance support to the USAR  when required, as estab-
lished by AR 5  –  9. 
(16)  Ensure that all assigned personnel, including those assigned supply and maintenance automated 
systems data entry responsibilities, receive formal technical training appropriate for their duty assign-
ments.  
(17)  Ensure that assigned maintenance and supply personnel are used in the MTDA positions for 
which they have been requisitioned and trained, including those positions identified with ASIs.  
(18)  Provide field maintenance as required for USAR units and  maintenance activities located in the 
installation support area; in -house and contractor maintenance will be provided in accordance with this 
regulation.  
(19)  Provide logistical support to ARNG and USAR units during AT, as required.  
 
(20)  Maintain an effective liaison program to the supported USAR maintenance activities, including 
ground, air, watercraft, rail, and water and petroleum within the logistical area of responsibility.  
(21)  Provide for backup equipment recovery support from commercial sour ces through the efforts of 
the supporting installation. Costs will be provided through Operation and Maintenance, Army ( OMA) Re-
serve Program elements.  
(22)  Appoint a float coordinator.  
(23)  Ensure winterization of equipment destined for geographic regio ns where temperatures from neg-
ative 25 degrees Fahrenheit to negative 60 degrees Fahrenheit are likely, to operate in an inclement 
weather environment.  
(24)  Ensure compliance with primary integrated product support policies and procedures and provide 
matrix support to the assigned PM. 
(25)  Ensure coordination of Army Logistics Product Data program standards, policies, and power logis-
tics software.  
(26)  Develop industrial base and/or depot requirements, registry process control, and management of 
the non -recurring engineering technical data.  
(27)  Ensure IUID is implemented in industrial and distribution processes.  
(28)  Ensure that management structures and database facilities fully support the safety surveillance 
requirements.  
(29)  Manage the Logistics Civil Augmentation Program and maintain its support contract. The contract 
is written for peacetime planning and contingency operations.  
(30)  Develop and provide the Army standard level of repair analysis ( LORA) model, the computerized 
optimization model for predicting and analyzing support structures.  
(31)  In coordination with ASA (ALT), serve as the Army lead to repair and reset NS  –  E, including ar-
ranging for commercial maintenance contract support. Assume responsibili ty for all sustainment funding 
(capture all costs associated with maintaining NS  –  E in serviceable condition) for NS  –  E held in storage.  
(32)  Provide ACOMs, ASCCs, and/or DRUs access to the Material Enterprise NS  –  E Database for 
viewing NS  –  E general maintenance guidance and other relevant NS  –  E information.  
(33)  Manage and update the Material Enterprise NS  –  E Database in coordination with the DCS, G  –  4. 
(34)  Publish procedures that provide users with specific guidance regarding the repa ir/reset of tactical 
NS  –  E at posts, camps, stations, and forward stationed locations.  
(35)  Coordinate with rapid equipping force, Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Office, Robotic 
Systems Joint Project Office, Army Asymmetric Warfare Group ( AAWG), ASA (ALT), and original equip-
ment manufacturers ( OEMs) to develop and implement maintenance and sustainment plans, as applica-
ble. 
(36)  Receive, store, and account for NS  –  E LBE as required to support deployed unit requirements. 
Maintenance and /or repair of NS  –  E in other than the APC category will not be performed by AMC unless 
the unit reimburses AMC.  
(37)  Maintain tactical NS  –  E approved by the Army Requirements and Resourcing Board as part of 
PDTE and provide long -term storage for t actical NS  –  E as approved by HQDA.  
(38)  Establish turn -in procedures for NS  –  E stored at the depot and dispose of unserviceable NS  –  E 
through the local Defense Logistics Agency –Disposition Services ( DLA  –  DS). 
(39)  Submit budget request to the DCS, G  –  4 (DALO  –  RIR) for tactical NS  –  E sustainment, reset, and 
storage costs, including care of supplies in storage.  
(40)  Develop a sustainment maintenance reset plan, in coordination with the provider/procuring activity 
(for example, rapid equipping force and AAWG, for NS  –  E, whether in storage or used for training.  
(41)  Conduct maintenance operations in accordance with environmental protection programs and poli-
cies. 
(42)  Evaluate all available methods of support for LRC/ AFSBn before requesting expansion of existing 
maintenance provider capabilities beyond current structure. Workload cross leveling inherent in the 
IMCOM structure, MOUs, or MOAs with  other ACOMs, ISSAs, or contracts will be considered prior to ex-
pansion.  
j.  With regard to the CBM/ PPMx program:  
(1)  Manage the daily operations and execution of the CBM/ PPMx program.  
(2)  Coordinate with ASA (ALT) to develop and procure PPMx arc hitecture, including associated hard-
ware and software for use Army -wide.  
 
(3)  Coordinate with ASA (ALT), TRADOC, and FORSCOM  to develop diagnostic tools and interface for 
units to use at the brigade, battalion, and company/troop/battery levels.  
(4)  Coordinate with ASA (ALT) to develop, procure and provide Armywide PPMx data storage capacity 
and capability.  
(5)  Provide analy tical tools that provide fleet -level information on the health of CBM/ PPMx supported 
equipment.  
(6)  Review CBM/ PPMx data, identify trends, and develop programs to address trends and provide 
feedback to units.  
(7)  Develop, maintain, and update the bas eline models and applications that perform prognostic func-
tions.  
(8)  Establish and maintain the Armywide data storage capacity and capabilities to integrate, store, and 
safeguard CBM data and monitor fleet equipment health and maintenance transactions pe rformed. 
CBM/ PPMx supported data (usage, diagnostic, engineering, and parametric) and related applications will 
be stored in a secure unclassified digital environment in accordance with the latest cyber security regula-
tions.  
(9)  Ensure CBM/ PPMx date i s accessible to stakeholders.  
(10)  Design, update and maintain the tactical enterprise logistics systems ( TELS) tactical, operational, 
and strategic architecture for PPMx operations including data transfers between the tactical, operational, 
and strateg ic levels.  
(11)  Support the ASA (ALT) and AFC in conducting a cost benefit analysis to determine whether a 
fielded system should be supported with PPMx capability.  
(12)  Update and publish technical materials in support of CBM/ PPMx for programs that are in sustain-
ment.  
(13)  Ensure CBM/ PPMx is incorporated in current and future depot -level maintenance concepts by co-
ordinating with the DCS, G  –  4 (Maintenance Directorate), AFC CAPDEVs and MATDEVs.  
(14)  Ensure CBM/ PPMx  is integrated with all program operations and the execution of equipment reset 
operations.  