
 
14–8.  Army Chemical Agent Resistant Coating, Camouflage, and Marking Program  
a.  CARC refers to a coating system, not a single coating. Application of the CARC system consists of 
four distinct steps, each of which is critical to the performance of the overall system. The steps are clean-
ing, pretreating, priming and top coating. Missing a step can result in failure of an entire coating system. 
Lists of approved elements of the CARC system are in the current revision of MIL  –  DTL  –  53072. The 
CARC system (or other approved coating system) u sed on equipment protects the underlying materials, 
often metal, from corrosion as one of its primary functions. Each specification within the CARC system 
has an approved and validated qualified product database ( QPD). Use only those items validated and 
listed on the QPD.  
b.  CARC coating system and/or CPP responsibilities are as follows — 
(1)  The CG, AMC  is the lead Army organization for providing management and direction of the CARC 
painting and marking program. AMC, MSCs will ensure that the CARC system requirements are included 
in all sustainment maintenance. AMC in coordination with DCS, G  –  3/5/7, PEO, and PMs provide appro-
priate CARC color schemes for new procurement processes.  
(2)  The CG, AFC provides management and direction for CPP, of Army materiel as follows — 
(a)  The CCDC Army Research Laboratory ( ARL), Materials and Manufacturin g Sciences Division, Ma-
terials Development and Transition Branch (FCDD  –  RLW  –  MC), Coatings and Corrosion Team is the tech-
nical authority for CARC systems. ARL is responsible for researching, developing and maintaining CARC 
protective coatings, the tes ting and qualification of these products, the technical instruction on paints and 
painting procedures, providing technical content to the specification and related CARC  documents and 
the shelf life validation and extension. The ARL, Materials and Manufacturing Sciences Division, which 
includes the ARL Specifications & Standards Office, is also responsible for developing, writing, managing 
and maintaining these material  specifications along with the QPD.  
(b)  Development of camouflage patterns, and color or colors for Army materiel.  
c.  Policies for painting.  
(1)  The CARC system is the approved coating for all combat and combat support equipment; tactical 
vehicles; ai rcraft, including unmanned; and essential GSE and reparable containers such as engine, 
transmission, and all ammunition containers, including appropriate kits, except as stated in paragraphs 
14–8c(9)(a)  through 14–8c(9)(f) . 
(2)  Coatings (paint) will be applied only when the present paint is unserviceable or if directed by 
HQDA. Vehicles may be completely recoated (repainted) when 25 percent or more of the total vehicle 
painted area has been determined to be unserviceable by supervisory maintenance personnel. For air-
craft, repair painting is restoration of a noncompliant coating system to an area equal to or less than 50 
percent, and c omplete painting is restoration of a noncompliant coating system to an area greater than 50 
percent.  
(3)  Repainting for the sole purpose of achieving uniformity or for cosmetic purposes is prohibited.  
(4)  Tactical equipment designed for single -color CAR C system requirement will be painted with an ap-
proved color based upon contingency mission environment.  
(5)  Complete repainting may be performed at field and sustainment levels where Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration approved facilities are av ailable in accordance with TM 43  –  0139 for GSE and 
TM 55  –  1500  –  345  –  23 for aircraft. Aircraft complete painting will be performed  at sustainment level. For 
vehicles, the threshold for complete repainting is 25 percent or more of the total vehicle area deemed un-
serviceable. Below this threshold, spot painting to repair damaged CARC system and prevent corrosion 
will be done at the fi eld level.  
(6)  Spot painting of the coating system to prevent corrosion at the field level using a brush, roller, or 
spray can (or other approved CARC repair product forms) will be done in accordance with TB 43  –  0242 
for ground support and TM 1  –  1500  –  345  –  23 for aircraft. Spot painting includes restoration of painted sur-
faces after repair.  
(7)  Spot painting of equipment painted with the CARC system will be with CARC system only. The use 
of any unauthorized, non -CARC system coating on any equipme nt painted with the CARC system is 
strictly prohibited.  
(8)  Damaged paint, particularly the primer(s), must be repaired in a timely manner to maintain or re -
establish corrosion protection. Scratches, chips, or marring of the paint observed during PMCS w ill be re-
paired at field level to prevent corrosion damage (see TB 43  –  0242  for ground support and TM 
55  –  1500  –  345  –  23 for aircraft).  
 
(9)  Items that do not require painting will not be painted. For example, items made of fabric, that have 
anodized, or parkerized surfaces will not be typically painted. Do not paint the following with the CARC 
system:  
(a)  Painted items that attain surface temperatures of 400 degrees Fahrenheit and higher, serve a heat -
conducting function, or serve a functio n of expanding and contracting during operation. Examples are 
manifolds, turbo chargers, cooling fins, and rubber hoses.  
(b)  Displacement watercraft that will be subject to prolonged saltwater immersion, such as the logistical 
support vessel and the landi ng craft utility.  
(c)  Non-deployable equipment and fixed installation systems such as railroad rolling stock and fixed 
power generation systems.  
(d)  Installation/ TDA equipment such as military police cars, non -tactical fire trucks, and buses.  
(e)  Alumi num transmissions that are enclosed in combat vehicle power pack compartments. However, 
any ferrous components of the transmission must be protected with CARC or other rust -preventive agent.  
(f)  Medical equipment.  
(10)  Environmentally acceptable coating s that do not violate Federal, State, and local laws will be used 
at all times in accordance with technical data packages provided to depots, arsenals, and contractors.  
(11)  CARC system -protected surfaces are not to be covered with petroleum or other pro ducts to im-
prove the appearance of the equipment. Use of these products will reduce the chemical protection pro-
vided by the CARC system and increase the probability of injury.  
(12)  Waivers and exceptions for CARC system requirements will be considered o n a case -by-case ba-
sis and may only be authorized by the exception of authority of this regulation after considering stake-
holder recommendations and justification. At a minimum, stakeholders should include the Army Corrosion 
Control Prevention Executive; DCS, G –4’s ARL; CCDC's ARL; and the appropriate centers (for example 
Ground Vehicle System Center or Aviation and Missile Center) and AMC MSC in their recommendation 
and justification. Full coordination with stakeholders must be made at least 30 calen dar days prior to any 
deadline for decision.  
(a)  The requestor will coordinate the DA Form 5 (Army Staffing Form) with stakeholders who will pro-
vide concur or non -concur recommendation to AMC and the milestone decision authority ( MDA) for re-
view and co nsideration.  
(b)  For equivalency of corrosion protection, the requestor will provide ARL actual data or objective 
quality evidence by an independent third -party who validates the non -CARC coating(s) as intended to be 
applied meets, at least, the same le vel of corrosion protection as would be provided by the CARC system 
components for pretreatments, primers, and topcoats for the same application, with preference given to 
the highest performing CARC. The data or objective quality evidence will include ou tdoor exposure test-
ing and the testing required in the latest versions of the applicable CARC system specifications covered 
by MIL  –  DTL  –  53072 for cleaning, pretreatments, primers and topcoats. For equivalency of critical attrib-
utes such as chemical agent resistance, spectral reflectance, visual color and gloss the requestor will pro-
vide a detailed survivability and protection analysis to ensure the assets, assets in nearby vicinity and unit 
or battalion the asset will be deployed with will n ot be compromised in terms of survivability and protec-
tion. Analysis will include a percentage of enhancement or vulnerability for requested waiver. This will in-
clude perception test and similar to ensure zero compromise of all mission assets and rigorous data col-
lected. Commercial comparisons are not considered valid data.  
(c)  The 30 day coordination period begins when ARL agrees they have sufficient information to evalu-
ate whether the proposed coating system can provide corrosion performance equivalency  and data to 
support dismissal of critical attributes such a such as chemical agent resistance, spectral reflectance, vis-
ual color and gloss or any element being requested to be exempted. Any decision to accept less than the 
corrosion performance equivalen cy of CARC or other requirements —such as chemical agent resistance, 
spectral reflectance, visual color, gloss —will be documented in the Systems Engineering Plan, the Test 
and Evaluation Master Plan and the LCSP. All supporting rationale and life cycle co st estimates used in 
making the decision will be provided to ARL upon approval of the waiver and exception.  
(13)  Waivers or exceptions to CARC system policy for CBRN mission critical systems or CBRN con-
tamination survivability requirements require a w aiver/change approval from DCS, G  –  3/5/7 in accordance 
with AR 15  –  41. 
(14)  Temporary color change will only be approved by AMC (G  –  4) or MDA. This action will be coordi-
nated with ARL.  
d.  Policies for CPP.  
 
(1)  CPP is a camouflage designed to i mprove concealment by making materiel blend in with their sur-
roundings and falsify information about the asset.  
(2)  CPP may include a single color, such as tan or green, or use a multiple color design as developed 
by the Ground Vehicle Systems Center and approved by CG, AFC.  
(3)  CPP is required for all equipment having an area greater than nine square feet on any side.  
(4)  CPP for new equipment will be specified in the technical data package and will be applied at the 
time of manufacture.  
(5)  Camouflage colors must meet requirements for spectral (gloss) and infrared reflectance, in addition 
to color as established by  CCDC ARL Coatings and Corrosion Team.  
(6)  When available, CPP will be applied to equipment during depot rebuild/overhaul, product improve-
ment programs, and recapitalization or refurbishment programs. If the three -color pattern has not been 
developed, a single color base coat will be applied. Where possible, depots will apply colors that conform 
to unit contingency missions if requested.  
(7)  Field and sustainment activities will accomplish CPP of equipment ha ving only a base coat. Pat-
terns may be obtained from the CCDC Ground Vehicle System Center. If requirements exist that differ 
from the approved patterns and color scheme, ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs must request development of 
the required pattern and/or co lor scheme thru CCDC Ground Vehicle Systems Center for all ground 
equipment.  
(8)  ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commanders are assigned responsibility and authority to camouflage 
paint equipment with patterns appropriate for contingencies. When a unit has more t han one contingency 
plan, the CPP for the primary contingency will be used. Priority should be given to early deploying units.  
(9)  CPP will not be changed for training exercises.  
(10)  CPP will not be applied to — 
(a)  Equipment not requiring open -area concealment.  
(b)  Non-deployable equipment and fixed installation systems.  
(c)  Equipment that must be painted in accordance with regulation or policy established by other Ser-
vices or Government agencies.  
(d)  Rotary and fixed -wing aircraft. However, GSE must have CPP applied in accordance with this regu-
lation.  
(e)  Components of systems or items that can be transported in various modes and can be constructed 
or assembled into a variety of configurations.  
(f)  Stackable containers used in the Defense Transportation System, except missile containers that are 
a component of a weapon system.  
(g)  Canvas covers, tarpaulins, end curtains, seats, and backrests.  
(11)  Equipment will not be decorated with individual ch aracteristic designs such as caricatures or car-
toons.  
(12)  The style, size, and exact location of markings for all Army materiel will be specified in applicable 
TB 43 –series and other DA technical publications, including technical data packages.  
(13)  Aviation equipment will be marked according to TM 55  –  1500  –  345  –  23. 
(14)  Special markings for NTVs are included in AR 58  –  1. 
(15)  Technical data, where appropriate, will be contained on metal or plastic plates or decals.  
(16)  The Red Cross insigni a for AMEDD equipment will consist of a red cross composed of four 
square -shaped arms bordering on a center square of the same size and superimposed on a square white 
field slightly larger than the cross.  
(17)  Under tactical conditions, when requirements  for concealment outweigh those for recognition, all 
conspicuous markings may be obscured or removed by the authority and at the discretion of the major 
organization commander present. Protective Red Cross markings may be obscured only at the direction 
of the responsible major tactical commander.  
(18)  Overseas commanders may deviate from this regulation when host countries require special 
markings in accordance with international agreements. For aviation, refer to TM 55  –  1500  –  345  –  23. 
(19)  Before Army materiel is sold or permanently transferred from the jurisdiction of the DA, all Army 
identification markings will be removed or permanently obliterated by sanding or chipping.  
(20)  Markings on the exterior of tactical equipment will be appli ed or over -sprayed with materials re-
sistant to chemical agents.  
(21)  Safety marking, including hazard warning and caution information, for non -tactical equipment, tac-
tical equipment not subject to the Army camouflage policy, and equipment at fixed facilit ies will comply 
 
with the provisions of AR 58  –  1. Materiel painted in camouflage requiring hazard warning and caution in-
formation will have this information applied in a contrasting color.  
(22)  Tactical equipment in CONUS and OCONUS units and activitie s without an identifiable contin-
gency mission or plan may maintain equipment in single color CARC that best conforms to the local ter-
rain to minimize repainting costs without affecting unit readiness:  
(a)  Equipment with three -color camouflage paint may n ot be repainted in single color CARC for the 
sole purpose of achieving uniformity.  
(b)  It is acceptable to have a mix of three and single color vehicles in a unit or activity.  
(c)  Equipment may be repainted from three color to single color CARC only wh en a qualified field sus-
tainment or depot maintenance personnel determines 25 percent or more of the total vehicle painted area 
is unserviceable.  