
3–7.  General policies  
a.  An officer, warrant officer, NCO, or civilian equivalent qualified in maintenance management will be 
appointed as maintenance officer, in writing, at each level of command if not authorized by MTOE/ TDA. 
Maintenance officers will provide staff supervisio n of materiel maintenance operations within the organi-
zation.  
b.  All Army organizations and activities performing maintenance operations will establish and maintain 
maintenance standard operating procedures ( SOPs) in accordance with DA Pam 750  –  3. 
c.  Commanders will achieve readiness objectives in AR 700  –  138 and meet the Army maintenance 
TLRT  –  M and TAT standards and OR rate goals in DA Pam 750  –  1. 
d.  Maintenance operations will be performed by military personnel in combat or hazardous duty a reas 
as determined by the combatant commander, except as outlined below. A workforce comprising military 
personnel, Government employees, and/or contractor maintenance organizations may perform field 
maintenance operations in garrison and/or sustainment lo cations. In garrison field maintenance and/or 
sustainment locations, contractors and contracted maintenance services are authorized to supplement 
manpower shortfalls in MTOE field maintenance organizations when commanders determine that their 
maintenance capability cannot perform to the required standard. Commanders will not augment mainte-
nance operations at the expense of Soldier readiness and proficiency in their military occupational spe-
cialty ( MOS). ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commanders will address contr act maintenance requirements dur-
ing the planning, programming, and budgeting process as outlined in paragraph 3 –7d. 
e.  All Army maintenan ce operations will be conducted in accordance with the environmental security 
provisions of AR 200  –  1 and the underlying Federal, State, local and host nation laws and directives. 
Commanders will aggressively support environmental protection programs and  policies in their mainte-
nance and supply operations. Commanders will use the DA standard environmental security AIS for haz-
ardous materials and hazardous waste management to assist them in complying with Federal, State, and 
local environmental laws and regulations while accomplishing their maintenance support missions. Com-
manders desiring exemption to the requirement for use of the Army standard environmental security soft-
ware must submit requests through their ACOM, ASCC, and DRU to the DCS, G  –  9. 
f.  Contractor augmentation is authorized during pre/post -deployment, reset, refit/recovery, and to sup-
port LBE or unit maintained equipment ( UME) while deployed.  
g.  ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commanders will designate a sustainment maintenance activity for  the 
cleaning of equipment identified to have evidence of human tissue and body fluids when cleaning require-
ments exceed organic field maintenance capability as determined by the Brigade commander. This activ-
ity must have the capability to disassemble and assemble equipment that is returned from field mainte-
nance units to ensure proper cleaning. The ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commanders will augment the unit 
and/or activity with appropriate resources (mortuary affairs, preventive medicine teams, and local chap-
lains), as required. Preventive medicine teams will certify cleaning prior to release of equipment to com-
batant command forces, other repair facilities, or U.S. customs officials for shipments to CONUS.  
h.  Commanders will not allow their equipment to be m odified except under the provisions of a valid 
MWO. The Army’s Critical Safety Item ( CSI) Program is fully described in paragraph 14  –  5 of this regula-
tion. 
i.  ACOM, ASCC, and DRU  commanders may authorize the fabrication of repair parts and components 
based on valid supply requisitions that cannot be obtained through the supply system in time to meet the 
requester’s required delivery date. Aircraft components that are critical to f light safety, and any other 
weapon system component designated as a safety related item, are not authorized to be fabricated. Fab-
rication of parts will not be made for the sole purpose of returning items to stock.  
j.  Maintenance will be managed at the ser ial number -level of detail or unique item identifier ( UII) in ac-
cordance with AR 700  –  145 and DA Pam 700  –  145. 
k.  The maintenance of all end items and class IX repairable items with a maintenance repair code 
(MRC) of F, H, D, or L will be managed at  the serial number -level of detail unless otherwise authorized by 
the DCS, G  –  4. 
l.  Serial numbers for the above items will normally be recorded in maintenance AIS and on data plates 
permanently affixed to the items and/or in various machine -readable a utomatic identification technology 
 
(AIT) devices and/or media. Examples of these are affixed or etched bar code labels, affixed or etched 
data matrix labels, and embedded chips.  
m.  Field commanders will not change the serial number assigned to an item, r egardless of changes in 
configuration. Under Item Unique Identification ( IUID), serial numbers cannot be changed.  
n.  At the Sustainment -level in AMC, the generation of serial numbers for manufactured items or as-
signment of serial numbers during depot -level materiel change operations will be governed by applicable 
DoD and Army policy and implementing AMC instructions.  
o.  Serial numbers are mandatory entries in the indicated data fields of maintenance management 
forms and records at all levels located i n appendix A . 
p.  TMDE will be calibrated in accordance with TB 43  –  180 and AR 750  –  43. 
q.  Quality control must be fully integrated into maintenance operations ensuring:  
(1)  The identification of equipment faults.  
(2)  Compliance with repair procedures and equipment standards contained in the TMs and equipment -
specific publications.  
(3)  The correct code (X, /, -) is entered in the GCSS –Army for the reported fault.  
r.  Maintenan ce policies, programs, and procedures unique to medical materiel will be maintained ac-
cording to AR 40  –  61, technical bulletin medical ( TB MED) 750  –  1, and TB MED 750  –  2. 
s.  Maintenance policies and procedures unique to those non -type classified and  nonstandard items of 
equipment used to accomplish installation's facilities engineering mission are contained in AR 420  –  1. 
t.  Maintenance policies and procedures for non -tactical vehicles ( NTVs ) will comply with policy in AR 