
2–12.  Chief, U.S. Army Reserve  
The CAR will — 
a.  Develop materiel maintenance plans, policies, programs, and budgetary requirements pertaining to 
the USAR.  
b.  Manage the USAR sustainment maintenance program.  
c.  Develop, program, budget, and defend sustainment maintenance requirements fo r USAR materiel.  
d.  Coordinate USAR depot maintenance requirements determination with U.S. Army Materiel Com-
mand ( AMC) LCMCs to ensure USAR depot maintenance is programmed in depot maintenance workload 
projections.  
e.  Coordinate all MOUs and/or MOAs involving sustainment maintenance of USAR materiel.  
f.  Develop a sustainment maintenance requirement determination process for USAR  materiel con-
sistent with policy and guidance in this regulation.  
g.  Provide representation to the Army OIBCB (see para 5  –  2). 
h.  Provide O  –  5- and/or GS  –  14-level representation to the OIBEC (see para 5  –  3). 
i.  Provide administrative, logistical, and technical assistance to Army reserve units outside the conti-
nental United States ( OCONUS) in support of Army materiel maintenance programs.  
j.  Ensure that maintenance su pports readiness. Hold commanders at all levels accountable for the 
conduct of maintenance operations.  
k.  Ensure evaluation of maintenance is included in the CMDP.  
l.  Supervise maintenance operations at all levels in the command.  
m.  Establish and supervise maintenance training for equipment operators and/or crews.  
n.  Establish maintenance -training strategy to build personnel military occupational specialties profi-
ciency for the conduct of maintenance operations.  
o.  Provide timely and accurate cost, readiness, and maintenance data to management systems.  
p.  Acquire and maintain a self -sufficient military capability and capacity for field and sustainment 
maintenance in support of combat, combat support, and CSS elements.  
q.  Program fun ds for field and sustainment (through AMC) maintenance and prioritize any un -re-
sourced requirements.  
 
r.  Perform maintenance at the lowest level possible according to MACs. This process must preclude 
TDA maintenance activities from absorbing maintenance  workloads that should be performed at MTOE 
field maintenance units.  
s.  Minimize the number of TDA maintenance operations to reduce resource requirements without ad-
versely affecting operational and contingency requirements. Ensure only one installation materiel mainte-
nance activity ( IMMA) exists on an installation. Installation commanders with the approval of AMC may 
consolidate Logistics Readiness Center ( LRC)/Army Field Support Battalion ( AFSBn) and Director of Pub-
lic Works maintenance operations w hen cost effective.  
t.  Evaluate all available methods of providing maintenance support before forwarding requests to the 
DCS, G  –  4 (Maintenance Directorate) for the establishment of IMMAs.  
u.  Comply with materiel maintenance standards found in applica ble technical publications and mainte-
nance -related logistical performance and readiness standards found in paragraph 3  –  3 of this regulation, 
DA Pam 750  –  1, and related publications.  
v.  Coordinate all requirements for USAR TMDE procurement with the product director ( PD)–TMDE in 
accordance with AR 750  –  43. 
w.  Establish a warranty control office and/or officer to implement the Army Warranty Program in ac-
cordance with AR 700  –  139. 
x.  Comply with all local, regional, and national regulations governing the inspection and maintenance 
requirements for prevention of pollution from mobile equipment. For more information, see AR 200  –  1. 
y.  Establish an effective CPC program for assigne d equipment in accordance with AR 750  –  59. 
z.  Carry out quality programs under the provisions of AR 702  –  11 for assigned maintenance and cali-
bration operations.  
aa.  Appoint a designated representative for the SRA, modification work order ( MWO ), and AOAP 
maintenance programs.  
bb.  Assist SDC -responsible officials and AMC LCMCs as required in establishing and conducting SDC 
projects that are implemented in the ACOM, ASCC, and DRU.  
cc.  Plan for and provide maintenance -plus repair parts i n support of contingency or emergency plans, 
as directed.  
dd.  Submit sustainment maintenance funding requirements in accordance with OP  –  29 resource formu-
lation guidance.  
ee.  Conduct maintenance operations in accordance with environmental protection pr ograms and poli-
cies. 
ff.  Train maintenance personnel and leaders to execute and manage CBM/ PPMx maintenance opera-
tions once established for applicable systems.  