
5–19.  Reclamation at the national level  
a.  Reclamation is the process of removing required serviceable and economica lly repairable compo-
nents from potential DoD excess or surplus property. These parts are returned to the proper supply activ-
ity for future requirements. Residue is processed as disposable property. AR 710  –  1 contains the policy 
for controlling the recla mation of Army -managed equipment at the national level.  
b.  The commander of each LCMC will establish and fund controlled reclamation programs.  
(1)  Depots with maintenance missions and/or contractor reclaiming sites will perform the task of dis-
mantling e nd items to obtain component parts.  
(2)  Depot reclamation work breakdown structure ( WBS) numbers will be classified as priority or rou-
tine. Priority reclamation procurement request order numbers (issue priority designators 01  –  08, used to 
meet priority requirements) will take precedence over a maintenance program with an equal or lower pri-
ority. Routine reclamation orders will be scheduled according to assigned priorities of depot workload.  
c.  Materiel managers at the LCMCs wi ll prepare save lists, with appropriate narrative, for items to be 
recovered and will forward the lists to the recovery program control officer at the depot performing the re-
covery operation. Repairable recovered items may be exempted from MEL control if required for high pri-
ority programs and there is no practical alternative SOS. Exemption will be noted on the save list.  
d.  Depot commanders will designate a recovery program control officer responsible for the coordina-
tion of all reclamation programs wi th LCMCs and within the depot. The recovery program control officer 
will— 
(1)  Establish and maintain the status and suspense file on all reclamation programs.  
(2)  Ensure that enough of the major items and/or assemblies are on hand.  
(3)  Close out the re clamation programs only after supply has verified that the receipt action is com-
plete.  
e.  Only the cost of the reclamation actions will be charged against the reclamation maintenance pro-
curement request order number.  
f.  QA procedures will be instituted to— 
(1)  Inspect and classify removed components as serviceable, unserviceable repairable, or uneconomi-
cally repairable.  
(2)  List missing assemblies and/or components or shortages from major items in the recovery opera-
tion other than those identified as r ecovered.  
(3)  Inspect and reclassify the major item on which reclamation was performed.  