
2–22.  Capability developers  
CAPDEVs, as identified in AR 700  –  127, will — 
a.  Include management and  performance of the materiel maintenance function in the development of 
concepts, doctrine, materiel requirements, organizations, and management information systems.  
 
b.  Determine the maintenance impact of new materiel or concepts.  
c.  Assist in planning for logistics demonstrations or maintenance assessment/maintenance evaluation 
and conduct analyses of results.  
d.  Balance performance capabilities with those of reliability, availability, maintainability, and supporta-
bility.  
e.  Determine capabil ities and develop the documentation for training devices.  
f.  Coordinate with MATDEVs and the LCMCs to ensure materiel maintenance considerations, to en-
sure ETMs are included in capabilities documents.  
g.  Determine skill requirements for BDAR and deve lop techniques and criteria for making repair, evac-
uation, and/or mutilation decisions based on time limits and available skills.  
h.  Review all new and revised technical and equipment manuals at the TM verification in accordance 
with AR 25  –  30. 
i.  Review all new and revised MAC no later than the maintenance demonstration.  
j.  Incorporate corrosion resistance into design and ensure CPC  measures are taken to extend the life 
cycle of Army weapon systems prior to fielding as related to reliability, availability, maintainability, and 
supportability.  
k.  Ensure requirements for winterization kits that facilitate operation in areas where temp eratures are 
from negative 25 degrees Fahrenheit to negative 60 degrees Fahrenheit.  
l.  Incorporate PPMx as a capabilities development document/capabilities production document 
(CDD/ CPD) requirement for new systems and for legacy equipment and support t he inclusion of PPMx 
where it is feasible and cost -effective.  
m.  Represent SKOT users for all matters associated with the review and update of SKOT and corre-
sponding component lists ( CLs).  
n.  Support PPMx in accordance with AR 700  –  127. 