
9–2.  Field maintenance policies  
a.  Field maintenance focuses on preventing deterioration of ammunition due to rough handling and ex-
posure, returning ammunition to a serv iceable condition. Field maintenance is not required or intended to 
perform major repair of components or disassembly and reassembly of ammunition. Field maintenance is 
to maintain stocks in a serviceable condition code for immediate issue and use at all l evels without spe-
cial tools and equipment. Functions performed as field maintenance includes the following:  
(1)  Cleaning, drying, and protection of individual items and/or packing material.  
(2)  Spot painting and re -stenciling.  
(3)  Removal of rust and/or  corrosion.  
(4)  Painting and stenciling of ammunition items, to include containers.  
(5)  Repair and fabrication of boxes, containers, and crates.  
(6)  Submission of ammunition condition reports.  
(7)  Demilitarization as directed by the Joint Mu nitions Command and/or when materiel which has been 
determined by QASAS to be unserviceable and does not meet the repair criteria.  
(8)  Replacement of readily removable external parts and components such as fuses of artillery and 
mortar ammunition, gromme ts, and nose plugs, humidity indicator housing/cards.  
(9)  Initial receipt inspection.  
(10)  Receipt inspection.  
(11)  Inspect packaging and loading during shipment (retrograde) process.  
(12)  Certification of ammunition residue to be explosive free.  
(13)  Periodic inspections.  
(14)  Storage monitoring inspection.  
(15)  Pre-inspection.  
(16)  Safety in storage inspection.  
(17)  Special inspection.  
(18)  Verification inspection.  
(19)  Basic load inspection.  
(20)  Determining and assigning condition codes.  
(21)  Maintaining depot surveillance record cards on locally stored and/or managed ammunition.  
b.  Using units will perform field maintenance on items prescribed to be done at the unit in accordance 
with the appro priate TM. Field maintenance is performed to prevent corrosion and deterioration of ammu-
nition because of rough handling and exposure.  
c.  Conventional ammunition renovation detachments will normally furnish sustainment maintenance on 
conventional ammunit ion in large ammunition supply points or depot complexes located in the communi-
cations zone. However, when practical, they should be deployed forward to perform maintenance rather 
than to evacuate reparable ammunition.  
d.  Sustainment maintenance reporting  for conventional ammunition is described in accordance with 
AR 700  –  28 and DA Pam 750  –  8. 