
3–13.  External maintenance support operations  
a.  External maintenance support operations are a support concept to ensure units without HQDA Au-
thorized FLM capability or units lacking the tools or personnel to perform FLM have the means to accom-
plish repair of equipment. Senior Commanders must maximize  all organic maintenance capability and ca-
pacity within their AOR logistics footprint (for example, Echelons Above Brigade, Echelons Above Divi-
sion, Support Maintenance Company before forwarding work for external maintenance support at Logis-
tics Readiness Centers ( LRC) or Theater Maintenance Support [Materiel Support Center Korea ( MSC – 
K), Theater Logistics Support Center Europe ( TLSC – E), or other FLM operations as outlined in DA Pam 
750  –  1. 
(1)  HQDA authorized FLM capability is categorized as t he authorized personnel and equipment on the 
MTOE to conduct FLM work.  
(2)  Maintenance capability is categorized as skills, expertise or specialized repair shops and tools nec-
essary to conduct FLM work.  
(3)  ACOMs, ASCCs, or DRUs must coordinate pro cedures and requirements with AMC for work order 
support.  
(4)  Units with HQDA authorized FLM or maintenance capability within SC FLM AOR request a support 
work order from external FLM organizations, the unit will fully reimburse CLIX parts and labor . 
 
b.  Senior commanders assigned Field Level Maintenance capable units within its AOR (for example, 
Support Maintenance Company) provide Field Level Maintenance support to customer units when:  
(1)  Customer units do not have HQDA  authorized Field Level Maintenance capability per unit MTOE or 
have a dependency statement in their MTO&E narrative as defined in paragraph 3 –12b1  –  5. 
(2)  When customer unit is within the confines of the SC as signed FLM (that is,  Support Maintenance 
Company) AOR.  
c.  In the event a unit’s external FLM provider is unavailable (for example, a Support Maintenance 
Company deployment), units are authorized to obtain maintenance support from the local LRC and wil l 
reimburse CLIX parts and labor.  
d.  If SC units incur a shortfall in available funding required to cover the cost of CLIX parts and labor at 
the LRC, it will be the responsibility of the ACOM, ASCC, or DRU HQ to submit an Un -Funded Require-
ments (U FR) request.  
e.  TDA organizations must adhere to the following guidelines:  
(1)  TDA organizations with authorized BASOPS follow paragraph 3  –  12.a. 
(2)  TDA organizations which augment MTOEs must request maintenance support through the MTOE 
chain of command they are directly supporting.  
(3)  TDA organizations not covered in paragraph 3  –  12 must coordinate with thei r ACOM for guidance 
on how to receive external maintenance support.  
f.  All units must establish a method to obtain and/or transfer funding for any reimbursable requirements 
prior to the transfer of work to the external FLM organization.  
g.  AMC, the NMM, may workload qualified LRC/ AFSBn to perform national maintenance re pairs on a 
reimbursable basis. Any new national maintenance workload requirements must go through the POM pro-
cess and be recognized and resourced before implementation or execution of new mission.  
h.  LRC/ AFSBn must be readily expandable to support mobi lization and contingency maintenance re-
quirements.  