
4–7.  Maintenance expenditure limit  
a.  MEL is the total acceptable one -time cost to repair an end item or reparable component to a fully 
serviceable condition as prescribe d in the appropriate TM. Current MELs and MEL procedures are listed 
in DA Pam 750  –  1, the TB 43  –  0002 series, TB 750 -series, and Materiel Master/ Federal Logistics 
(FEDLOG) or Web Federal Logistics Information System ( WebFLIS). The managing nationa l inventory 
control point ( NICP) should be contacted if unsure of the current MEL. There may be instances when the 
MEL for a major end item has changed, and the change has not yet posted in either TB 43  –  0002 series 
or the TB 750 series.  
(1)  MEL is t o be used to ensure economic and operational effectiveness of Army maintenance at all 
levels. Request disposition instructions through the decision support tool ( DST), in accordance with 
ACOM, ASCC and/or DRU policy, for equipment that exceeds the MEL. Depot -level assistance may be 
obtained through the logistics assistance office.  
(2)  Required repairs will not be broken into separate job estimates to bypass prescribed MELs.  
b.  MEL will be expressed as a percentage of the Army master data file/unit replacement price.  
(1)  MEL will be reviewed at least annually and updated as required.  
(2)  MELs will be established for all items except the following:  
(a)  Materiel procured with non -appropriated funds.  
(b)  Installed building equipment ( IBE) as defined in AR 420  –  1. 
(c)  Non-type classified training devices used exclusively by training institutions and schools.  
(d)  Non-type classified equipment and items of nonstandard materiel that do not require national level 
materiel management or logistics support.  
 
(e)  Materiel exempt from type classification.  
(f)  Class V materiel.  
c.  For mandatory procedures relating to MEL see DA Pam 750  –  1. 
d.  ACOM, ASCC, and DRU comman ders have one -time approval authority on requests for waiver of 
published MEL when the required maintenance can be accomplished at field and/or sustainment level 
maintenance or by local contract.  
e.  One-time approval authority is limited to a specific model or serial numbered major end item. In ap-
proving such requests, commanders will ensure the following:  
(1)  A replacement item is not available by the required delivery date.  
(2)  Resources are available or can be made available to the request ing organization to do the repairs 
prior to the required delivery date.  
(3)  Requesting organizations develop a repair cost estimate and justification for retention.  
(4)  Requests will not exceed the DA Form 7723 (Maintenance Expenditure Limit ( MEL) Waiv er) ceiling.  