
13–3.  Planning for contractor support,  fielding and/or post fielding  
a.  Logistics support of Army materiel performed under contract by commercial organizations, including 
the original manufacturer, is considered contractor support. Support may include materiel and facilities as 
well as servic es such as maintenance, supply, distribution, training, software support, repair, overhaul, 
and the collection and development of maintenance data as required by AR 700  –  127. Contractor mainte-
nance personnel will not normally be allowed to perform field maintenance tasks except the following:  
(1)  To address manpower requirements criteria shortfalls during peacetime operations.  
(2)  To address HQDA approved maintenance programs such as reset.  
(3)  To support equipment services when the equipment maintenance plan designates contract support 
as part of the materiel acquisition strategy.  
b.  The decision to use contractor maintenance support is accomplished as part of the SOR analysis 
during the ILS process in accordance with AR 700  –  127 and must be documented as part of the Milestone 
B ASARC. The plan for use of maintenance CLS will include a plan for the capture of contractor man -
hours expended in support of Army equipment.  
c.  Proposals for con tract maintenance support of classified equipment will adhere to the following:  
(1)  All contract maintenance support of COMSEC, SIGINT, and EW equipment must undergo an as-
sessment of risks to national security before a cost study is performed to use commercial maintenance 
sources. The installation security manager in coordination with the ACOM, ASCC, and DRU (security and 
commercial activity managers) must conduct this special risk assessment. HQDA, NSA, and the AMC 
LCMC NMP must approve this assessment and selection of a contractor facility. The proposal, including 
PWSs with additional information identifying the COMSEC and/or SIGINT and EW equipment, density 
supported, and levels of maintenance to be performed, will be submitted through the appropriate AMC 
LCMC and DCS, G  –  3/5/7 (DAMO  –  FDI), 400 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  0400, to the Direc-
tor, NSA (S  –  04), Fort Mea de, MD 20755  –  6000.  
(2)  Classified equipment not under NSA cognizance being considered for maintenance support con-
tracts to contractors other than OEMs will be given an assessment of risk as prescribed above.  