
4–10.  Controlled exchange  
a.  Controlled exchange is the removal of serviceable components from unserviceable, economically 
reparable end items for immediate reuse in restoring a like item or weapon system to an FMC condition. 
The unserviceable component must be used to replace the se rviceable component or retained with the 
end item that provided the serviceable component.  
b.  Controlled exchange is authorized only when — 
(1)  Required components are not available from the source of supply ( SOS) within the issue priority 
designator ind icated on the maintenance request.  
(2)  A valid requisition is submitted to replace the unserviceable item.  
(3)  The maintenance effort required to restore all the unserviceable reparable materiel involved to a 
mission capable condition is within the MAC authorization and the capability of the unit performing the 
controlled exchange.  
(4)  The end item or weapon system from which the serviceable component is removed is classified not 
mission capable ( NMC) supply.  
(5)  Aircraft from which a serviceable comp onent is removed must be classified as one of the following: 
NMC supply, NMC maintenance, or partial mission capable ( PMC).  
(6)  Aircraft maintenance manual instructions require that a known serviceable component be temporar-
ily used while troubleshootin g. Such components may be temporarily exchanged from an FMC or PMC 
aircraft.  
(7)  The end item or weapon system will not be degraded to an uneconomically reparable condition.  
(8)  The end item or weapon system from which the serviceable component was rem oved is protected 
from further degradation.  
(9)  The unserviceable component is tagged and installed on, or retained with, the end item or weapon 
system from which the serviceable like item was removed. In addition, the removal of the component 
must be rec orded on DA Form 5990  –  E, DA Form 2407, DA Form 5988  –  E, DA Form 2404, or DA Form 
2408  –  13  –  3 for the end item or weapon system. This is to retain the identity and integrity of the reparable 
end item or weapon system.  
(10)  The organization performing the controlled exchange takes prompt action to restore the unser-
viceable materiel to an FMC condition.  
 
c.  When the controlled exchange satisfies a requirement already in the Army supply system, that requi-
sition will be either canc eled or used to restore the unserviceable end item or weapon system to FMC.  
d.  As a result of a controlled substitution action, record the part source code G in GCSS –Army to indi-
cate the component was taken from another like end item when closing the wo rk order on the end item 
being returned to FMC status (see GCSS –Army End User Manual Plus).  
e.  Controlled exchange by using units is authorized only when — 
(1)  All the unserviceable reparable materiel involved is owned or under control of the organizati on per-
forming the controlled exchange.  
(2)  It is the only means reasonably available to eliminate an adverse effect on the OR of the unit, or-
ganization, or activity performing the controlled exchange.  
(3)  Approved by the commander of the organization performing the controlled exchange.  
f.  Controlled exchange by field and sustainment levels of maintenance will be authorized onl y when — 
(1)  It is the only means of providing an FMC end item or weapon system to a supported unit within the 
time frame indicated by the issue priority designator on the maintenance request.  
(2)  It is for other than aviation equipment, approved by the first O  –  5 commander of the owning equip-
ment or sustainment maintenance commander. Approval process for aviation equipment will be in accord-
ance with AR 95  –  4. 
g.  During mobilization or combat, ACOM, ASCC, and DRU  commanders may modify the controlled ex-
change conditions as deemed necessary.  
h.  Controlled exchange is not authorized when the investigating officer has not formally released mate-
riel involved in an accident.  
i.  Controlled exchange is not authorized on  RCF assets.  
j.  Control exchange documents and a controlled exchange log will be maintained in accordance with 
AR 25  –  400  –  2. Documentation will be filed in accordance with the record retention schedule available at 
https://www.arims.army.mil . 