
16–2.  Left Behind Aircraft –sustainment  
a.  AMC will coordinate the transfer of aircraft with the losing and/or gaining command and the aviation 
and missile LCMC for sustainment operations.  
b.  ACOM and/or ASCC will identify aircraft as left behind at home station 120 days prior to available 
load date.  
c.  LBA will be transferred in accordance with the maintenance standards for serviceability require-
ments as listed in TM 1  –  1500  –  328  –  23 and the phase requirements listed below. Requests for exception 
to this standard will be submitted to the DCS, G  –  4 (DA LO  –  MPV).  
(1)  A transfer inspection will be conducted in accordance with the aircraft TM preventive maintenance 
daily checklist and the results provided to AMC (Aviation Field Maintenance Directorate), prior to transfer-
ring LBE–aircraft.  
(2)  All airc raft will be inventoried in accordance with DA Form 2408  –  17 by military occupation specialty 
qualified personnel by losing and gaining organizations. AMC will coordinate with the AMCOM for assis-
tance with qualified personnel if necessary, to assist in  TIs on aircraft.  
d.  If the gaining and losing organizations cannot come to agreement on the condition of LBA–aircraft 
prior to induction or redistribution, they will contact the DCS, G  –  4, Aviation for adjudication and final deci-
sion.  
e.  Maintenance  and historical records for all LBA–aircraft will be transferred to gaining organization 
electronically in the current authorized Standard Army Maintenance Information System format with re-
quired paper backup copies by the losing organization. Deviations are not authorized.  
f.  Aircraft work ordered in accordance with DA Pam 738  –  751 to an SOR upon designation as LBA and 
transferred to AMC. Units are responsible to notify the SOR  that the aircraft has transferred as LBA. Prior 
coordination is required to facilitate AMCOM (Aviation Field Maintenance Directorate) assistance with 
and/or completion of maintenance required on aircraft identified as LBE. Phase, component, and times t o 
major inspections will be in accordance with TM 1  –  1500  –  328  –  23. Exceptions will be forwarded to the 
DCS, G  –  4 (DALO  –  MPV) through the ACOM and/or ASCC G  –  4, Aviation office — 
(1)  Aircraft will be maintained in flyable storage at an FMC statu s in accordance with AR 700  –  138, and 
the applicable TMs. Aircraft incapable of transferring in an FMC status will transfer with prior coordination.  
(2)  LBA–aircraft will transfer and or be inducted with all equipment required to maintain the aircraf t in 
an FMC status as outlined in AR 700  –  138. Specific instructions will be provided in the transfer order.  
g.  Loans as previously outlined in the definitions of this chapter are not permitted for aircraft. Lateral 
transfers will be accomplished in accordance with the procedures outlined in this message.  
 
Chapter 17  
Unit Maintained Equipment  