
5–3.  Organic Industrial Base Execution Council responsibilities  
The OIBEC is responsible for — 
a.  Providing strategic oversight of the integration and execution of intra -service depot maintenance and 
manufacturing programs accomplished within the OIB, to include sponsored and funded workloads for the 
organic Army maintenance depots and manufacturing a rsenals, program executive offices, RC, inter -Ser-
vice, and the ACOMs’ contractor and organically operated “sustainment -level tasks” performed at the field 
maintenance level.  
b.  Assess strategic level indicators, metrics, and/or parameters to ensure Army  OIB enterprise goals 
and objectives are met consistent with all statutory, regulatory, and Army strategic readiness system re-
quirements.  
 
c.  Recommending OIB program policy changes as appropriate to the Army OIBCB.  
d.  Recommending to the Army OIBCB t he “right -sizing,” that is, the capabilities and capacity, of the 
organic Army maintenance depots and manufacturing arsenals, as well as the Army’s contractor and or-
ganically operated depot maintenance -type activities at the field maintenance level, based on valid work-
load and core requirements.  
e.  Establishing and maintaining a long -term Army OIB strategic plan for Army OIBCB approval. The 
OIB strategic plan will be reviewed and/or revised accordingly on an annual basis.  
f.  Identifying the requirement  for the development of DSTs, such as Depot Maintenance Operations 
Planning System ( DMOPS), to assist the Army OIBCB and OIBEC in fulfilling their responsibilities.  
g.  Meeting monthly or quarterly as necessary and reporting to the Army OIBCB at a min imum of two 
times a year. The OIBEC will also support Army OIBCB meetings that may be scheduled as required to 
resolve issues that cannot be deferred until a quarterly Army OIBCB meeting is held.  
h.  Reviewing, streamlining, and/or consolidating all sta tutory, regulatory, and internal reports to im-
prove the timeliness, accuracy, and utility of the information collected and analyzed, and to identify over-
lap, gaps, and eliminate duplicative tasking orders and reporting requirements.  