
2–4.  Chief, National Guard Bureau  
The CNGB will — 
a.  Provide overall coordination and administration for developing materiel maintenance plans, pro-
grams, and budgetary requirements pertaining to the Army National Guard ( ARNG).  
b.  Manage the ARNG  sustainment maintenance.  
c.  Develop, program, budget, and defend sustainment maintenance requirements for ARNG materiel in 
accordance with DFAS  –  IN Manual 37  –  100. 
 
d.  Coordinate ARNG sustainment maintenance requirements determination with AMC life cycle man-
agement commands ( LCMC) to ensure ARNG sustainment maintenance is programmed in sustainment 
maintenance workload projections.  
e.  Be a party to all memorandums of agreement ( MOAs) and/or memorandums of understanding 
(MOUs) involving sustainmen t maintenance of ARNG materiel.  
f.  Develop a depot maintenance requirement determination process for ARNG materiel.  
g.  Provide representation to the Army OIBCB.  
h.  Provide O  –  5 (lieutenant colonel) - and/or GS  –  14-level representation to the OIBEC (see para 5  –  3). 
i.  Establish an NS  –  E maintenance and equipment reset point of contact.  
j.  Maintain and repair tactical NS  –  E procured with unit and/or state funds.  
k.  Conduct maintenance operations in accordance with environmental protection programs and poli-
cies. 
l.  Coordinate with The Adjutant General of each State to ensure the following:  
(1)  Direct and manage all sustainment maintenance operations applicable to all Federal supplies a nd 
equipment issued to ARNG units and activities within the State.  
(2)  Ensure that commanders provide adequate time for all Soldiers to spend 25 percent of their inac-
tive duty training ( IDT) performing required operator preventive maintenance checks and  services 
(PMCS) on individual and organizational equipment.  
(3)  Ensure that commanders provide adequate time for the armorer; chemical, biological, radiological, 
and nuclear ( CBRN) personnel; communications noncommissioned officer ( NCO ); and mechanics to 
spend 50 percent of their IDT and annual training ( AT) time engaged in maintenance performance or 
training, including conducting 25 percent of field -level services on unit equipment in their respective func-
tional areas.  
(4)  Establish  a maintenance assistance and instruction team ( MAIT)/command maintenance evalua-
tion and training ( COMET) program (see para 14  –  14). 
(5)  Evacuate equipment and materiel requiring sustainment maintenance as dir ected by the CNGB.  
(6)  Establish field maintenance facilities to provide support for home station equipment.  
(7)  Designate specific ARNG unit(s) to use and support an approved unit training equipment site 
(UTES) operation. This will include adjusting operating costs within and between using unit(s) for related 
maintenance and training.  
(8)  Designate type and quantity of home station equipment to be located at the UTES.  
(9)  Establish a Command Maintenance Discipline Program ( CMDP).  
m.  Ensure the su rface maintenance manager ( SMM) will — 
(1)  Plan, execute, and direct the surface maintenance human resources program.  
(2)  Plan, develop, and manage in -State maintenance training and coordinate the out -of-State mainte-
nance training.  
(3)  Implement and administer the safety, hazardous waste, and industrial hygiene programs for all sur-
face maintenance facilities.  
(4)  Serve as the principal State adviser to the facilities management office on surface maintenance fa-
cilities construction.  
(5)  Analyze, coor dinate, and manage on -hand equipment readiness for the State.  
(6)  Provide technical supervision to all surface maintenance activities and exercise operational and ad-
ministrative control over combined support maintenance shops ( CSMSs), maneuver area train ing equip-
ment sites ( MATES), UTES, and field maintenance shops ( FMSs).  
(7)  Manage surface maintenance funds.  
(8)  Appoint in writing a primary and alternate individual to assume duties as CSMS, MATES, FMS, or 
UTES supervisor as the shop supervisor.  
(9)  Manage the SMM office, providing control and direction for all matters relating to office administra-
tion. 
(10)  Ensure compliance with the National Maintenance Program ( NMP) business procedures when 
scheduling and executing sustainment maintenance operations.  
(11)  Ensure each State, including: the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin 
Islands, will prepare and maintain a current state surface equipment maintenance support plan ( MSP) lo-
cated on the National Guard Bureau ( NGB ) Guard Knowledge Online website under the Logistics Mainte-
nance Branch.  
n.  Ensure the State Army Aviation Officer (a member of the State Adjutant General’s staff) will — 
 
(1)  Implement and administer the State aviation logistics programs.  
(2)  Analyze, co ordinate, and manage the operational readiness ( OR) of aviation assets.  
(3)  Ensure the aviation logistics programs are in accordance with applicable materiel and maintenance 
regulatory requirements.  
(4)  Acquire and maintain a self-sufficient military capability and capacity for field and sustainment 
maintenance in support of combat, combat support, and combat service support ( CSS) elements.  
(5)  Supervise implementation of aviation logistics programs.  
(6)  Maintain ARNG  aviation assets using Department of the Army ( DA) readiness goals listed in AR 
700  –  138. 
(7)  Ensure compliance with safety of flight requirements and aircraft modifications.  
(8)  Program funds for field and sustainment maintenance and rank order any u nfinanced requirements.  
(9)  Administer the ARNG Aviation Maintenance Program.  
(10)  Supervise ARNG maintenance and materiel technical personnel.  
(11)  Ensure logistics regulatory requirements are implemented and followed through the complete avi-
ation cy cle. 
(12)  Maintain ARNG aviation assets in the highest state of readiness.  
(13)  Report compliance with safety of flight requirements and aircraft modifications through the Avia-
tion and Missile Command ( AMCOM) Message Tracking System at https://amtracks.redstone.army.mil/ . 
(14)  Report deficiencies in quality, materiel, or maintenance in accordance with DA Pamphlet (Pam) 
738  –  751 (aviation only).  
(15)  Perform maintenance at the lowest level possible according to the maintenance allocation chart 
(MAC). This process must preclude table of distribution and allowances ( TDA) maintenance activities 
from absorbing maintenance workloads that should be perform ed at modification table of organization 
and equipment ( MTOE) field maintenance units.  
(16)  Train personnel designated as operators and crewmembers to properly operate and perform 
PMCS on their assigned equipment.  
(17)  Assign maintenance responsibiliti es for unit equipment to specific individuals.  
(18)  Schedule maintenance time and give equal emphasis to preventive maintenance training.  
(19)  Require compliance with prescribed preventive maintenance procedures.  
(20)  Require that all equipment be maint ained to the maintenance standard (see para 3  –  3). 
(21)  Require that all before, during, and after operations checks be accomplished each time the equip-
ment is operated or used.  
(22)  Submit the following forms to t he supporting maintenance facility for backup maintenance support 
beyond the unit’s capability:  
(a)  DA Form 5990  –  E (Maintenance Request).  
(b)  DA Form 2407 (Maintenance Request).  
(c)  DA Form 5988  –  E (Equipment Maintenance and Inspection Worksheet).  
(d)  DA Form 2404 (Equipment Inspection and Maintenance Worksheet).  
(23)  Maintain records applicable to hand receipt, operation, maintenance, modification materiel readi-
ness reports, and transfer of equipment as prescribed in appropriate publ ications.  
(24)  Maintain accountability and serviceability of components of end item ( COEI), basic issue items 
(BII), and additional authorization list and ensure shortages are on valid requisition.  
o.  Train maintenance personnel and leaders to execute and manage CBM/ PPMx maintenance opera-
tions once established for applicable systems.  
p.  Ensure publication requirements are in accordance with AR 25  –  30. 