
8–8.  General  
a.  This section applies to the maintenance of Army tactical c ommunications, command, control, and 
computer, intelligence, EW, and sensors equipment, including MTOE, TDA, and loaned materiel. Commu-
nications, command, control, computer, intelligence, EW, and sensors equipment includes, but is not lim-
ited to, the f ollowing:  
(1)  Army intelligence and electronic warfare ( IEW) equipment fielded to corps, divisions, armored cav-
alry regiments, separate brigades, and battalions.  
(2)  INSCOM tactical IEW equipment, including select equipment items in U.S. Army field st ations and 
regional support centers ( RSCs).  
(3)  ACOM, ASCC, and DRU -developed; ACOM, ASCC, and DRU -procured; and ACOM, ASCC, and 
DRU -fielded IEW equipment, including non -developmental items and COTS items.  
(4)  Other selected communications, command, control, computer, intelligence, EW, and sensors 
equipment that receives sustainment and/or sustainment forward support from the Electronic Sustainment 
Support Center ( ESSC).  
b.  The CG, AMC  is responsible for the support of Army IEW materiel with CECOM being designated 
as the Army lead organization for tactical IEW logistics sustainment.  
(1)  The Field Sustainment Support Division, Field Support Directorate, CECOM Integrated Logistics 
Support Center ( ILSC) mission is to develop, plan and provide forward maintenance, supply, logistics and 
field maintenance for nonstandard and COTS C5ISR to the warfighter, at deployed and home station lo-
cations. Field Sustainment Support Division is comp rised of DA Civilian logisticians and maintenance 
managers who develop and deliver cost -effective, timely and efficient solutions to worldwide C5ISR cus-
tomers. This support is executed through our worldwide RSC construct.  
(2)  Joint operations equipment  developed for special operations forces units are exempt from the re-
quirements of this section.  
c.  The IEW sustainment RSC is an integrated repair activity that provides the field with a dedicated 
support structure for low -density IEW systems.  
d.  C5ISR Sustainment maintenance: C5ISR equipment/systems requiring DLR, overhaul, rebuild or 
recapitalization during peacetime will be candidates for the CECOM C5ISR Life -cycle Analysis Team 
(CLAT) and Sustainment Maintenance Forward initiative. ACOMs, ASCCs, will report C5ISR equipment 
requiring depot maintenance support to, receive disposition instructions from, the appropriate system inte-
grated support manager.  
(1)  C5ISR equipment selected for the CLAT will be provided a subject matter expert eval uation and 
certification of the C5ISR asset with a focus on physical condition and corrosion. CLAT will utilize a stand-
ardized inspection criteria and inspection work sheets for each family of C5ISR equipment, that is, TMs, 
special TI and repair, inspections workbook/checklist.  
(2)  C5ISR equipment identified as being part of this inspection program will normally be evaluated 
every 5 years but may be evaluated more frequently as field conditions or usage factors dictate. C5ISR 
evalua tions and Physical Inspections will provide a metric based assessment of the condition of the eval-
uated systems. The CECOM CLAT will provide the Weapon System Directorate, Integrated Logistic Sup-
port ( ILS) Managers the evaluation and/or inspection data for their review and analysis assisting them in 
identifying and prioritizing candidate assets for the C5ISR depot maintenance program.  