
11–4.  Training aids and devices  
This section provides maint enance policy for training aids and devices. It supplements policies in AR 
25  –  1, AR 350  –  38, and AR 700  –  127. Training aids and devices used by the Army can be categorized as 
follows:  
a.  Training aids and devices assigned to a MTOE unit are type classified and include simulators or end 
items.  
b.  Training aids and devices managed by TDA activities include the following:  
(1)  Non-type classified training aids and devices developed or comm ercially acquired to support gen-
eral military training and training on more than one type item of materiel. These are usually assigned to 
and maintained by training and visual information ( VI) support centers for loan to units and activities.  
(2)  Type cl assified training aids and devices used to support a special training requirement.  
c.  Maintenance policy is as follows:  
(1)  Type classified and non -type classified training aids and devices will be maintained in accordance 
with this regulation.  
(2)  Oper ator and/or crew training equipment will be maintained to the Army maintenance standard out-
lined in paragraph 3  –  3 and the turn -in and/or transfer standard in paragraph 4  –  9. 
(3)  Equipment (end items and major assemblies) that is frequently disassembled and assembled for 
instructional purposes will not be maintained to Army maintenance standard. Additionally, this equipment 
will be transferred or turned in to the national syst em under condition code F and not –10/–20. If required 
 
for reissue, equipment will be routed through sustainment maintenance before issue. Equipment will re-
main disassembled for instructional purposes.  
(4)  A maintenance plan as part of the logistic suppor t plan will be developed and fielded with the mate-
riel. COTS materiel procurement will include an MSP or justification for contract maintenance or inter -Ser-
vice support.  
(5)  Type classified training aids and devices that are identified on MTOE or TDA documents will be 
maintained in accordance with the MAC. Support requirements beyond the user’s authority or capability 
will be referred to the supporting IMMA.  
(6)  Locally fabricated training aids and devices will be maintained by the training and VI support center. 
Maintenance above the capability of the training and VI support center will be referred to the supporting 
IMMA.  
(7)  User commands are responsible for programming and budgeting funds for contract maintenance 
support for all training aids and devices under their control.  
(8)  Sustainment maintenance will be furnished by AMC.  