
6–6.  Aviation sustainment maintenance  
a.  Aviation sustain ment as defined by aircraft TM MAC or AMC agency executed maintenance not 
classified as FLM is sustainment -level maintenance and will only be accomplished by authorized agen-
cies as permitted in this regulation.  
b.  The sustainment base comprises the ARNG AVCRADs or TASMG, sustainment, the OEMs mainte-
nance and overhaul facilities, installation support activities, and AMCOM contract maintenance support. 
The TASMG is the name for an AVCRAD when it deploys and rec eives all the additional attachments it 
requires to perform its wartime missions.  
c.  Army aircraft will be maintained and supported to the extent authorized in this policy and TB 
43  –  0002  –  3. Army aircraft may be accepted into national base facilities f or programmed or un -pro-
grammed maintenance. Accountability will be transferred to the NICP when aircraft are accepted for pro-
grammed depot maintenance. Aircraft accepted for un -programmed depot maintenance will normally be 
processed on a repair -and-return -to-user basis.  
d.  In peacetime, the ARNG TASMGs perform field and sustainment base maintenance in support of 
regional ARNG aviation assets. In addition to field and sustainment maintenance, the TASMG performs 
NMP repair, limited sustainment airframe  repair, aircraft painting, major airframe repair, sustainment -level 
component repair, and component repair and management, as directed by AMC. These functions are 
specifically discussed in NG Pam 750  –  2. Requests to exceed maintenance authority and/or expenditure 
limits (funds and/or work hours) will be forwarded to AMCOM.  
e.  The Aviation Sustainment Maintenance Program consists of sustainment maintenance such as air-
craft recapitalization, rebuild, and overhaul, crash and battle damage repair, major a irframe modifications, 
and on -condition maintenance.  
f.  Aircraft will be selected as candidates for recapitalization and overhaul during peacetime under the 
aircraft condition evaluation program as described in DA Pam 750  –  1. 
g.  Aircraft requiring cras h or battle damage repair will be reported to, and disposed of, in accordance 
with instructions received from the NMP and/or NICP, using procedures prescribed in TB 43  –  0002  –  3. 
h.  Aircraf t programmed for sustainment overhaul or crash and battle damage repair will have MWOs 
installed during the overhaul process. Aircraft requiring sustainment modifications that are not scheduled 
for sustainment overhaul or crash and battle damage repair wi ll be modified by contractor or sustainment 
modification teams in accordance with AR 750  –  10. All modifications installed will be documented in ac-
cordance with AR 750  –  10. Sustainment modification programs for converting aircraft to later series (for 
example, AH  –  64A to AH  –  64D) will normally include overhaul as a part of the total program. Candidates 
for conversion should also be overhaul candidates whenever practicable. Conversion and modification 
programs will be coordinated between NICP and ACOM s, ASCCs, and DRUs.  
 
i.  All applicable documents and records will be processed in accordance with DA Pam 738  –  751 during 
sustainment maintenance. Personnel preparing maintenance contract requirement packages will ensure 
that the provisions of this regu lation are included in all applicable maintenance contracts.  