
12–9.  Army Medical Logistic Command Medical Maintenance Policies and Analysis Division  
a.  M2PA provides national -level oversight of maintenance and sustainment functions for Army medical 
forces. M2PA manages all sustainment repairable items which are composed of items that cannot be re-
paired at FLM. All sustainment -level reparable items will be repaired to the Army main tenance standard 
defined in paragraph 3  –  3 and for nonstandard equipment, manufacturers’ literature or documentation de-
veloped by sustainment organizations.  
b.  M2PA will — 
(1)  Enhance responsiveness to sustainment maintenance requirements generated during peacetime, 
contingency, and wartime conditions by linking all levels of sustainment maintenance under the appropri-
ate commodity command.  
(2)  Implement the Army policy of repair as the primary SOS.  
(3)  Implement the highest published standard as the national standard and the single standard for 
those items repaired and returned to the supply system.  
(4)  Optimize workload across existing maintenance capabilities and allows for reductions in capital in-
vestments to maintenance facilities and TMDE used in maintenance operations.  
(5)  Develop and maintain a database of maintenance facilities, both organic and contract, and is re-
sponsible for ensuring minimal redundancy of maintenance capabilities and capac ities. 
(6)  Ensure all repairs will be demand supported and based on Army requirements.  
(7)  Consolidate all sustainment maintenance workload in depots, on national maintenance contracts or 
at FLM activities.  
c.  M2PA responsibilities — 
(1)  Develop strategic plans to support class VIII equipment requirements for maintenance that effec-
tively and efficiently support contingency operations through strategic maintenance points and capabilities 
that project maintenance subject matter expertise across the continuum of care.  
(2)  Support the maintenance vision of ensuring 100 percent readiness for field  medical, dental, and 
veterinary units.  
(3)  Monitor processes that foster improvements in readiness of medical equipment and materiel issued 
to TOE medical units to include readiness assessments through SDC, training support, maintenance au-
tomation deve lopment and special programs implementation.  
(4)  Manage non -depot repair programs for all class VIII reparable items for the Army.  
(5)  Maintain visibility of the Army’s sustainment maintenance capabilities and capacities.  
(6)  Provide input on national m aintenance related to doctrine, strategic direction, and policy docu-
ments.  
(7)  Develop and coordinate maintenance management procedures, guidance, and metrics.  
(8)  Serve as a resource for national maintenance information to ILS processes.  
(9)  As part of the Integrated Concept Development Team, coordinate maintenance data requirements 
with logistics automation developers.  
(10)  Track cost effectiveness and efficienc y of national repair programs.  
(11)  Maintain databases and/or files.  
(12)  Ensure Army medical materiel maintenance policies are updated and remain applicable to current 
field tactical and sustainment business procedures for biomedical systems, technologi es, and equipment.  
(13)  Ensure medical maintenance management processes fully supports the Army’s Medical Logistics 
Enterprise.  
Chapter 13  
Life Cycle Maintenance Support  