
9–4.  Munitions maintenance planning  
a.  Munitions maintenance and surveillance procedures will be complied with in accordance with DA 
Pam 742  –  1. 
b.  The munitions maintenance pro gram will be managed by the NICP and executed based on require-
ments determined by unit of employment “x” or unit of employment “y” from the theater inventory control 
point and/or NICP. The maintenance to be performed by an activity will be based on the a ctivity’s as-
signed mission or as directed by the unit of employment “x” or unit of employment “y” from the NICP.  
c.  Personnel in MOS 89B and MOS 890A and QASAS assigned to conventional ammunition units will 
perform maintenance of ammunition only after  receipt of a properly validated work authorization. Work 
authorization can be a DA Form 2407  –  1, DA Form 2415 (Ammunition Condition Report), or letter of au-
thorization. An assignment sheet (work order) can be added where a validated work authorization does 
not furnish sufficient information. The assignment sheet will be used within the organization and will nor-
mally provide for, but is not limited to, the following:  
(1)  The scope of the maintenance work.  
(2)  The lot number and quantity of rounds to be processed.  
(3)  The lot number and quantity of replacement parts or components to be used.  
(4)  Special instructions on inspection, operations, hazards, and disposition of unserviceable compo-
nents resulting from operations.  
(5)  Operations that must be performed to process the material, consisting of replacing parts, painting, 
changing nomenclature, adding a suffix, and preparing data cards.  
(6)  Materials to complete the work, including quantity.  
(7)  DMWRs for renovation or disposal of ammunition a re composed of a series of sheets in the form of 
a pamphlet. Each sheet is an operational study of the technical features of the operation to be accom-
plished. The DMWR is approved and issued by the U.S. Army Combat Capabilities Development Com-
mand ( CCDC)  Armaments Center. The DMWR will be used as a guide for the ammunition officer prepar-
ing the details and procedures for completing the work in a theater of operation. DMWRs and letters of 
instruction are the only procedural guidance authorized for perfor mance of maintenance and demilitariza-
tion at installations. Exceptions to this policy must have the approval of the NMP  
d.  Provisions must be made to request a Lot Suffix assignment prior to beginning any maintenance in 
accordance with MIL  –  STD  –  1168C  (for example, item requiring 100 percent inspection). Lot Suffix re-
quests can be made by going to site: https://prod.jmc.army.mil/als/app/defau lt.aspx . Any questions re-
garding Lot Suffixes can be made by contacting HQ, Joint Munitions Command (AMSJM  –  QAS), Rock Is-
land, IL 61299  –  6000 at DSN (312) 793  –  7535 or commercial (309) 782  –  7535.  
 
Chapter 10  
Maintenance of Organizational Clothing and Equipment  
Section I  
Organization Clothing Items and Individual Equipment  