
5–5.  Depot maintenance core capability  
a.  Core is a capability maintained within DoD organic depots, Software Engineering Centers ( SECs), 
and Software Engineering Directo rates to meet readiness and sustainability requirements of the Army 
weapon systems that support the Joint Chiefs of Staff ( JCS) contingency scenario(s). The MATDEV must 
develop the capability to repair new weapon systems identified as requiring core logi stics capability at 
GOGO facilities. For hardware, a core capability must be established at a GOGO facility within 3 years 
after the new weapon system achieves an initial operational capability. For software, core capability (in-
cluding software data righ ts to intellectual property) must be established the year after a software incre-
ment production is complete (a system production line may have multiple increments). Core depot 
maintenance capabilities will comprise only the minimum facilities, equipment, a nd skill personnel neces-
sary to ensure a ready and controlled source of technical competence to effectively respond to a mobili-
zation, national defense contingency situation, or other emergency requirement.  
b.  The core logistics workload required to maintain a core logistics capability must be performed at 
GOGO facilities of a military department. Performance of core logistics workload will not be contracted out 
to non -Government personnel, which includes contr actors working in Government depots, as the intent of 
core depot maintenance is to ensure the Government possesses the organic competencies to sustain 
Army equipment to be able to respond to military mobilization, contingencies, and other emergencies.  
c.  Weapon systems, equipment, components, and/or software designated as mission essential, but not 
needed to sustain core capability, may be maintained in the private sector if the required capability can be 
provided with acceptable risk, reliability, and eff iciency.  
 
d.  DCS, G  –  4 (Sustainment Maintenance Division) in coordination with DCS, G  –  3/5/7 and AMC will use 
the DoD standard methodology in DA Pam 750  –  1 to determine required depot maintenance core capabil-
ities and the workload needed to sustain  these capabilities on a biennial basis.  
e.  Core capabilities and the workload required to support these capabilities will be reviewed every 2 
years or more frequently, as required.  
f.  The core logistics analysis and applicable core depot analysis will b e conducted in accordance with 
AR 700  –  127. 
g.  The PMs are encouraged to develop Joint Government and industry relationships known as depot 
partnering arrangements for accomplishing depot maintenance. A decision to solicit industry for the per-
formance of work that includes depot maintenance or repair of weapon systems and/or equipment, the 
solicitation should include language requiring public -private partnerships. Performance based product 
support strategy ( PBPSS) implementation strategies will include  public -private partnerships to satisfy the 
requirements of 10 USC 2464 or 10 USC 2469, as applicable, and the solicitation for a PBPSS will in-
clude language requiring partnership with an organic entity for core (and potential noncore) workload. The 
benefits of depot partnering to the Government include the following:  
(1)  Increased productivity.  
(2)  Reduced cost.  
(3)  Reduction in excess infrastructure.  
(4)  Improved responsiveness to the warfighter.  