
12–2.  Medical maintenance policies  
a.  TSG, command surgeons, RMCs and/or MSCs will task the medical materiel maintenance functions 
to medical activities to support the Army Medical  Department ( AMEDD) mission. TOE commanders will 
report the status of selected medical items of equipment in accordance with AR 220  –  1 and AR 700  –  138. 
b.  AMEDD  has transitioned to the Army maintenance system consisting of field and sustainment (two 
level) maintenance.  
c.  Medical maintenance support missions will be accomplished with applicable standards pertaining to 
the maintenance of medical MD including, but  not limited to:  
(1)  Documenting maintenance of radiation emitting equipment in accordance with 21 CFR, TB MED 
750  –  2, and TB MED 521.  
(2)  Maintaining a safe environment of care for the patient and staff in accordance with 29 CFR.  
(3)  Performing el ectrical safety in accordance with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 99.  
(4)  Ensuring preventive life safety measures are considered as outlined in NFPA 101(R).  
(5)  Managing MD program according to TB MED 750  –  2, FM 4  –  02 and TM 3  –  34.46. 
d.  AMC through the U.S. Army Medical Logistics Command ( AMLC ) must approve the use of field and 
sustainment contract maintenance for materiel fielded under MTOE.  
e.  ILS plans will be adhered to throughout the life cycle of medical materiel to ensure adequate logis-
tics support (see AR 700  –  127 for additional in formation on ILS).  
f.  Medical materiel acquisition policies and procedures will be followed in accordance with AR 40  –  60 to 
minimize logistics support requirements. Nonstandard equipment procurement will include MSPs, justifi-
cations for contract maint enance, or ISSAs.  
g.  Each medical device will be tested for serviceability, current leakage, and ground resistance. Tests 
will be performed prior to initial use, upon completion of electrical repairs and at least annually or more 
frequently if recommende d by the manufacturer. Proper testing will ensure equipment operates within 
manufacturer -specified limits and guidelines and with paragraph 12 –1c. 
h.  The specific maintenance policies that apply to the ARNG are as follows:  
(1)  State maintenance officers must coordinate medical maintenance support.  
(2)  Medical maintenance requirements beyond unit capabilities may be supported from the following 
resources:  
(a)  Other ARNG  medical maintenance resources in the State.  
(b)  Defense Health Agency organizations with area support responsibilities.  
(c)  U.S. Army Medical Materiel Agency ( USAMMA) Medical Maintenance Operations Divisions 
(MMOD).  
(3)  The Supply Bulletin 8  –  75  –  S10 provides additional ARNG -specific MD guidance.  