
2–15.  Commanders, Army commands, Army service component commands, and direct reporting 
units  
The commanders of ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs will — 
a.  Ensure that maintenance supports readiness. Commanders at all levels are accountable for the con-
duct of maintenance operations.  
b.  Ensure evaluation of maintenance is included in the command inspection  program.  
c.  Ensure that subordinate commanders comply with the policies in this regulation. Send one copy of 
any implementing instructions to DCS, G  –  4 (DALO  –  MP), 500 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 
20310  –  0500.  
d.  Supervise maintenance operations at  all levels within command.  
e.  Establish and supervise training programs for equipment operators, crews, and/or maintenance per-
sonnel in the conduct of maintenance operations.  
f.  Provide timely and accurate cost, readiness, and maintenance data to management systems.  
g.  Acquire and maintain a self -sufficient capability and capacity for unit and maintenance provider sup-
port of combat, combat support, and CSS elements.  
h.  Program funds for support of equipment and prioritize any unfinanced requirem ents.  
i.  Ensure that FLM is performed at the unit level or evacuated to the next level (sustainment) for supply 
disposition if the initial inspection identifies that the cost of repair exceeds the MEL.  
j.  Comply with materiel maintenance standards and maintenance -related logistical performance and 
readiness standards.  
k.  Coordinate all requirements for TMDE procurement with the PD  –  TMDE in accordance with AR 
750  –  43. 
 
l.  Establish a warranty control office and/or officer to implement the Army Warranty Program in accord-
ance with AR 700  –  139. 
m.  Comply with all local, regional, and national regulations governing the inspection and maintenance 
requirements for prevention o f pollution from mobile equipment. For more information, see AR 200  –  1. 
n.  Provide air -traffic control materiel support.  
o.  Establish, oversee, and ensure compliance with CPC program for assigned equipment in accord-
ance with AR 750  –  59. 
p.  Determin e if reimbursement for fabrication services of field or sustainment maintenance activities is 
authorized.  
q.  Carry out quality programs under the provisions of AR 702  –  11 for assigned maintenance and cali-
bration operations.  
r.  Designate points of conta ct for the CBM/ PPMx, SRA, MWO, AOAP, unique item tracking ( UIT), and 
maintenance float programs.  
s.  Appoint in writing as an additional duty an RCF coordinator and/or manager.  
t.  Establish subordinate RCF managers at the Corp/Expeditionary Sustainment Command -level.  
u.  Submit RCF nominations annually to AMC for fielded ground equipment (see para 14  –  6). 
v.  Ensure RCF policy compliance (see para 14  –  6). 
w.  Conduct RCF supply transactions as written in AR 710  –  2. 
x.  Ensure Joint technical inspection ( TI) is conducted and signed by a logistics assistance representa-
tive ( LAR), LRC/ AFSBn representative.  
y.  Ensure aviation RCF foll ows paragraph 14  –  6 of this regulation.  
z.  Assist responsible official and AMC LCMCs as required in establishing and conducting SDC projects 
that are implemented in the ACOM, ASCC, and DRU.  
aa.  Ensure subordinate commanders with sustainment maintenance missions comply with NMP busi-
ness procedures when scheduling and executing sustainment maintenance operations.  
bb.  Ensure that all assigned personnel, including those assigned supply and maintena nce automated 
systems data entry responsibilities, receive formal technical training appropriate for their duty assign-
ments.  
cc.  Ensure that assigned maintenance and supply personnel are used in the MTOE and/or modifica-
tion tables of distribution and all owances ( MTDA) positions for which they have been requisitioned and 
trained, including those positions identified with an additional skill identifier ( ASI).  
dd.  Be responsible for preparing and submitting the depot maintenance workload distribution ( DMWD) 
requirements report for prior, current, and budget years.  
ee.  Provide MWO application teams with reasonable access to unit MWO coordinators, equipment, 
and facilities, in accordance with AR 750  –  10. 
ff.  Schedule MWO  application teams on unit training calendars.  
gg.  AMC will implement item unique identification ( IUID) for IMCOM items.  
hh.  Forecast and request NS  –  E required for training prior to deployment, via operational needs state-
ment, to the HQDA Army Req uirements and Resourcing Board.  
ii.  Establish a NS  –  E maintenance and reset point of contact.  
jj.  Fund AMC for maintenance to be executed on all NS  –  E LBE managed by AMC other than that in 
the APC category described in this paragraph.  
kk.  Coordinate with AMC for contract maintenance support, as required.  
ll.  Conduct maintenance operations in accordance with environmental protection programs and poli-
cies. 
mm.  Ensure that any heavy lifting is com plete with a suitable lifting device in accordance with Military 
Standard ( MIL  –  STD) –1472G.  
nn.  Review the Army’s approved Master Divestiture List prior to repairing equipment that should be re-
placed or divested from the Army inventory.  
oo.  Once the CBM/ PPMx end -to-end network architecture is in place, units will submit system/equip-
ment -level CBM/ PPMx digital diagnostic data to the national data storage facility through the appropriate 
Logistics Information System ( LIS). Active ACOMs will submit reports no less than once every 21 days for 
ground systems and 7 days for aviation systems. The Army Reserve and National Guard will submit 
PPMx data no less than every 45 days. In the future, as wireless capabilities are developed and fielded, 
this proce ss may occur via an automated interrogation and reporting process and may be a pull vice a 
push reporting process.  