
5–17.  Aviation depot maintenance round -out units  
a.  The Aviation Depot Maintenance Round -Out Unit ( ADMRU) program consists of four Theater Avia-
tion sustainment maintenance groups ( TASMGs) and the HQ, ADMRU. Respective State  Adjutant Gener-
als operationally control the four TASMGs and the HQ, ADMRU during garrison operations with direct 
doctrinal and operational guidance from the NGB Aviation and Safety Division. TASMGs perform back up 
field and sustainment -level maintena nce on ARNG aircraft and components in support of the ARNG Army 
Aviation Support Facilities. Performing NMP work, SRAs, and OTRs maintains required skill sets, as well 
as supports the ARNG aviation aircraft fleet. The HQ, ADMRU is responsible for m obilization planning 
and coordination with AMCOM and AMC to include specialized training and classification missions in sup-
port of AMC. HQ, ADMRU, in conjunction with AMC and AMCOM, is responsible for controlling, maintain-
ing, refurbishing and new p rocurements in support of the Theater Aviation Maintenance Program ( TAMP) 
equipment package.  
b.  When mobilized, AMC may direct that the TASMGs perform surge workload at home station. AMC 
may direct the TASMGs in whole or in part to augment CONUS dep ots or to send teams to support mobi-
lization and deployment of aviation units from CONUS installations. AMC may also mobilize the TASMGs, 
as well as the HQ, ADMRU (to be converted to a TASMG HQ & HQ Detachment) and deploy them to 
augment AMC forward commands in operations. The TASMGs will operate the TAMP when deployed to 
an area of operations. The TAMP equipment package is a like set of equipment (that each TASMG has 
and operates) that will dep loy forward to be used and operated by the TASMG personnel during deploy-
ments. The TAMP equipment package plus the sustainment level skills of the TASMG personnel provide 
the aviation sustainment capability forward at the TAMP. The TAMP equipment pack age is deployable, 
but not mobile once set up in Theater, the TAMP becomes a fixed base operation. The TAMP equipment 
requires a cement floor or transportable maintenance facilities to secure and calibrate the equipment.  
c.  The TASMGs and HQ, ADMRU u nits remain under the command of their respective State Adjutant 
Generals during pre -mobilization. AMCOM assumes command and control of the mobilized units or 
teams when the unit or team arrives onsite (for example, CONUS depot). If the HQ, ADMRU and/o r 
TASMGs deploys in whole or part, the AMC forward command assumes operational control when the unit 
arrives in theater. The HQ, ADMRU will perform the mission of the fifth (rotational) TASMG HQ with mili-
tary and contractor maintenance support, if re quired. During mobilization, the TASMGs provide AMC with 
an employable mobilization surge workload capability for depot -level classification and repair of aviation 
materiel.  
d.  AMCOM will — 
(1)  Establish formal mobilization planning, work loading, prog ramming, and training guidance to in-
clude unit mission, mobilization station, and related subordinate command responsibilities; premobiliza-
tion training; and evaluation and training exercise participation.  
(2)  Establish training criteria for and evaluate the training of the HQ, ADMRU and TASMGs. Periodic 
evaluations will be designed to measure mobilization readiness in aviation logistics support, mobilization 
planning system, operations, tr aining, safety, and administration as a minimum. Coordination of evalua-
tion schedules with the respective State Adjutant Generals will be accomplished before each FY. 
(3)  Establish mobilization -training objectives based on wartime missions and/or workloa ds. 
(4)  Provide guidance and assistance to HQ, ADMRU and TASMGs in implementing the Army training 
management system.  
(5)  Provide management guidance necessary to enhance HQ, ADMRU and TASMGs mobilization 
readiness through training together with the  CNGB.  
(6)  Provide necessary resources for peculiar training requirements as funds are available and identify 
and assist in securing resources not available in peacetime channels but required for special depot -level 
training to meet mobilization requirem ents.  
(7)  Provide necessary equipment and subject matter experts as required and as funds are available.  
(8)  Provide highly qualified aircraft maintenance personnel to HQ, ADMRU and TASMGs, on request, 
to perform onsite training and assistance.  
 
e.  HQ, ADMRU and TASMGs will be prepared to deploy within 30 days of mobilization. The HQ, 
ADMRU and TASMGs will also be prepared to augment CONUS depots within 30 days of mobilization.  
(1)  In case of full mobilization, from the day of mobilization to M +90, the remainder of the CONUS 
TASMGs clears in -house workload and provides depot assistance to the deploying FORSCOM forces.  
(2)  At M+91 day and until termination of mobilization, the CONUS HQ, ADMRU and TASMGs  perform 
the assigned AMC mobilization workload in support of the national aviation pipeline.  