
7–3.  On condition cyclic maintenance  
a.  General.   On condition cyclic maintenance ( OCCM) is a sustainment level service. This service is 
required to meet  numerous, vessel specific, federal statutory and regulatory requirements. All Army wa-
tercraft will undergo OCCM in accordance with the intervals established in DA Pam 750  –  1. The intervals 
are maximum time intervals. When a deviation of more than 3 months is anticipated, the using unit may 
request a waiver with justification through the appropriate ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commander to the 
TACOM LCMC. The equipment status reporting will follow standard EMSR guidelines after the waiver pe-
riod (90 day s after the service due date) has expired. OCCM is the sustainment -level maintenance that is 
performed to ensure compliance with international and national maritime regulatory guidance for mini-
mum safety standards at sea. OCCM consists of a series of ins pections and maintenance service actions 
that are designed to ensure that a watercraft's structure (internal and external), piping, main and auxiliary 
engines, electrical installations, lifesaving appliances, fire detecting and extinguishing equipment, pol lu-
tion prevention equipment, and other equipment is maintained in a suitable, seaworthy, and safe condi-
tion. TACOM will provide policy and procedures applicable for watercraft inspections and surveys other 
than operator PMCS. Marine condition surveys are  TIs and written evaluations performed by qualified 
WIB marine surveyors in accordance with TB 55  –  1900  –  201  –  45/1; Title 46, Code of Federal Regulations 
(46 CFR); American Bureau of Shipping ( ABS) criteria; and International Convention for Safety o f Life at 
Sea standards — 
(1)  A marine condition survey will be performed 180 days prior to the scheduled OCCM cycle. This sur-
vey will provide the basis for written specifications by which OCCM is accomplished. This will be a 
dockside inspection. When po ssible, the services of qualified divers will be used to ascertain the condition 
of the watercraft's hull and appendages below the deep load waterline.  
(2)  At the time of dry -docking, a dry -dock inspection will be performed to identify additional repair 
and/or maintenance requirements not observable at the time of the 180 day inspection (dockside).  
(3)  Scheduled surveys required by the U.S. Coast Guard and the ABS for retention of “load line” certifi-
cation will be accomplished in accordance with 46 CFR 41  –  69 and TB 55  –  1900  –  201  –  45/1. When such 
inspections are required, the services of the ABS will be employed.  
b.  Surveys.   In addition to the 180 day marine condition survey, TACOM LCMC  whenever possible will 
also arrange an underwater hull survey as defined by TB 55  –  1900  –  201  –  45/1.  
c.  Inspector qualifications.   Only experienced and qualified technical experts will perform marine condi-
tion surveys on Army watercraft. This requires the surveyor to be thoroughly familiar with, and capable of 
interpreting, written standards, Federal laws, rules, and regulations affecting watercraft inspection, com-
mon watercraft construction, maintenance, and repair procedures. The marine surveyor must also be ca-
pable of preparing written repair specifications and estimating repair costs (man -hour and materiel costs) 
for repairs required to return a watercraft to condition code B as defined by AR 725  –  50 to ensure the ves-
sel is safe, seaworthy, and FMC. 
d.  Responsibilities.  
(1)  The WIB is responsible for the performance of all marine condition surveys incident to the repai r 
and/or overhaul of Army watercraft when the maintenance and/or repair action is to be accomplished at 
the sustainment level. This includes all marine condition surveys incident to the accomplishment of 
OCCM as defined by this regulation.  
(2)  Support ma intenance organizations and activities at the retail level are responsible for performing 
marine condition surveys incident to the repair of Army watercraft at their level or evacuation by TELS 
work order to the next highest level.  
(3)  When qualified mar ine surveyors are not available at support facilities, assistance may be re-
quested through normal channels to TACOM in accordance with paragraph 7 –2e. 
e.  Maintenance.   The statement of work to be accomplished during OCCM will vary, depending upon 
watercraft condition, class of vessel, and other factors. As a minimum, the following maintenance and re-
pair actions will be accomplished during OCCM:  
(1)  Bottom cleaning and  painting up to the deep -load waterline in accordance with TB 43  –  0144.  
(2)  All repairs below the deep -load waterline as identified during dry -dock inspection/underwater hull 
survey.  
 
(3)  Overhaul, replacement, and/or renewal of all major components iden tified for overhaul at the sus-
tainment level. The requirements will be determined through diagnostic testing, hours of operation, and 
inspection of internal components as directed by TACOM LCMC.  
(4)  All other maintenance and/or repairs identified by the  marine and/or ship surveyor required to affect 
a permanent change in the watercraft's condition, to ensure the following:  
(a)  Capability of operating in an unrestricted manner for the purposes intended.  
(b)  Capability of being maintained and operated in  accordance with all applicable regulations, rules, 
laws, and policies.  
(c)  Sustainability of the inherent reliability and maintainability designed and manufactured into the 
equipment between repair cycles.  
(d)  Sustainability of acceptable rates of water craft readiness between OCCM cycles.  
(5)  TM re view and update following vessel maintenance and repair resulting in a permanent change in 
watercraft condition. All minimum maritime safety inspections required by the ABS; 46 CFR 41  –  69; and 
International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea to mainta in the load -line documentation in a status.  