
11–5.  Visual information equipment and systems  
This paragraph provides maintenance policy for VI equipment and systems. It supplements policies in AR 
25  –  1 and AR 700  –  127. 
a.  VI materiel includes photographic, television, audio and graphic art items that furnish an audiovisual 
product or service.  
b.  The DCS, G  –  6 will validate authorization of type classified VI materiel prior to documentation in a  
CTA, TDA, or TOE, and/or MTOE to ensure compliance with DoDI 5040.02.  
c.  Class VI materiel assigned to an audiovisual facility or other TDA activity, including broadcast radio 
and television, will be commercially acquired. The logistics supportabi lity of commercially acquired mate-
riel is the responsibility of the procuring activity. Local procurement will be coordinated with the local com-
mon support audiovisual activity for consolidation of contracts for maintenance services and adherence to 
standa rds and class VI architecture; see DA Pam 25  –  91 for guidance. Broadcast radio and television ma-
teriel and systems costing over $5,000 will be procured, managed, and supported by the television -audio 
support activity, the Office of the Assistant Secreta ry of Defense (Public Affairs), and the American Forces 
Information Service.  
d.  Maintenance policy is as follows:  
(1)  A maintenance plan as part of the logistics support plan will be developed and fielded with the ma-
teriel. COTS materiel procurement wil l include the equivalent of an MSP or justification for contract 
maintenance or inter -Service support.  
(2)  Type classified VI materiel will be maintained in accordance with the MAC. Support requirements 
beyond the user’s authority or capability and all  non-type classified audiovisual materiel will be referred to 
the common support VI activity or the Director of Information Management.  
(3)  The training community may, at the option of the ACOM, ASCC, and DRU , manage maintenance of 
class VI equipment and activities integrated with training device support activities. Otherwise, contract re-
quirements will be submitted to the supporting Director of Information Management, who will coordinate 
the support.  
(4)  User commands are responsible for contract maintenance support for all class VI materiel under 
their control and are responsible for budgeting funds for it. Funds will be made available by the user to the 
supporting Director of Information Management or cla ss VI activity to support its contract efforts.  
Chapter 12  
Maintenance of Medical Devices  