
13–2.  Use of military, civilian, contractor, local national maintenance personnel  
a.  Contractors, DA civilians, and local national augmentation may be used in a supporting role to meet 
the defense objective of ensuring that enough trained personnel are available to maintain the DoD-wide 
force and support structure in accordance with AR 70  –  1, AR 700  –  127, and the requirements of this regu-
lation.  
(1)  Military personnel will perform maintenance in combat or hazardous duty areas as much as possi-
ble. The employment of civilians in hazardous duty areas for the performance of maintenance of field 
equipmen t that can be maintained by a Soldier is strongly discouraged.  
(2)  Where conditions are not conducive civilians will not be permanently stationed in combat areas or 
hazardous duty areas as determined by the combatant commander (see AR 715  –  9). Civilians  may travel 
forward to a brigade combat team operational area on a case -by-case basis as individual equipment fail-
ures occur to provide temporary onsite maintenance and technical advice, for example, sustainment -level 
maintenance assistance teams and modif ication application teams.  
(3)  Outside the brigade operational area, in addition to military personnel, civilian maintenance person-
nel (contract, TDA, and local nationals) may be acceptable as a prudent risk on the probability of mainte-
nance services bei ng continued in wartime and in support of other contingency operations.  
b.  The Army will rely on the competitive private enterprise system, both U.S. and foreign, for mainte-
nance support service to the maximum extent that is consistent with effective and efficient accomplish-
ment of Army programs and missions.  
c.  The use of foreign private enterprise will be limited to the following situations:  
(1)  DoD organic or DoD contract maintenance support activities lack the capacity to perform the task in 
the ti me required.  
(2)  Use of foreign private enterprise has been predetermined by international agreement.  
(3)  Use of foreign private enterprise will not affect the development or maintenance of U.S. national 
capabilities.  
 
(4)  The use of foreign contractual services will be contingent on U.S. contracting authority certification 
of quality, capability, and capacity.  
d.  Contract maintenance will not be used when:  
(1)  In-house activities are necessary for individual and unit training of military pe rsonnel.  
(2)  It will result in higher cost of current maintenance support to the Army than organic support.  
(3)  The product or service is available from another DoD component or other Federal department or 
agency.  