
5–2.  Organic Industrial Base Corporate Board roles and responsibilities  
a.  The ASA (ALT) establishes the overall policy and strategic objectives for the Army OIB Program.  
b.  The ASA (ALT) relies on DCS, G  –  4 to implement strategic guidance, monitor and evaluate OIB per-
formance, identify deficiencies, and/or problems and recommend corrective action.  
c.  The co -chair of the Army OIBCB is the military deputy, ASA (ALT), and DCS, G  –  4. 
d.  DCS, G  –  4 establishes and maintains a long -term Army OIB Strategy Impl ementation Plan for the 
Army OIBCB approval. The Army OIB Strategy Implementation Plan will be reviewed and/or revised as 
directed by the  Army OIBCB co -chairs.  
e.  The Army OIBCB is responsible for — 
(1)  Implementing strategic direction provided by th e ASA (ALT).  
(2)  Meet quarterly or as required to provide corporate level strategic direction and policy recommenda-
tions across the OIB Enterprise, to include resource guidance, to ensure the OIB effectively supports 
Army readiness.  
(3)  Govern the implementation of the Army OIB Strategy Implementation Plan by establishing goals, 
objectives, and strategic indicators and metrics that will define the future Army OIB. 
(4)  Monitor OIB corporate metrics such as: total revenue, productive yi eld, repair cycle time ( RCT), 
carryover, and performance -to-promise.  
(5)  Meet quarterly or as required to review OIB enterprise programs and statutory compliance such as: 
capital investments programs, core capabilities, and “Distribution of Depot Mainte nance Workloads (50/50 
rule).”  
 
(6)  Resolving issues associated with OIB enterprise policies, guidance, programs and processes, re-
viewing each one and directing that the appropriate corrective action(s) be taken, to include establishing 
forums and study a nd/or working groups, as required or directed by the Army OIBCB (see AR 15  –  1). 
(7)  Resolving OIB enterprise issues raised by other Army agencies, other Services, or OSD.  
(8)  Providing guidance to the OIBEC, as required.  
f.  The purpose of the Army  OIBCB is to monitor OIB performance including customer requirements 
and quality of support, capacity, funding, workforce, productivity, efficiency, capital investments, quality 
workplace environment standards, identifying issues, and directing correctiv e actions. The Army OIBCB’s 
strategic guidance and direction provided by the ASA (ALT) is implemented by the Army’s OIB stakehold-
ers. The OIB primary stakeholders include AMC, ARNG, USAR, ASCCs, ACOMs, Army organic and con-
tractor operated OIB act ivities at the installation and theater levels, and program executive offices. The 
Army OIBCB also provides direction to the OIBEC  which has day -to-day oversight of inter -Army and intra -
Army depot maintenance and manufacturing programs to include sponsored and funded workloads of the 
organic Army maintenance depots and arsenals. The OIBEC is co -chaired by AMC (Deputy, G  –  3 (Supply  
Chain Management Directorate) and (Chief, G44  –  M (Sustainment Maintenance Division))  and report di-
rectly to the co -chairs of the  Army OIBCB.  
g.  The OIBCB provides corporate -level strategic direction and policy recommendations across the vari-
ous elem ents of the Army considering the role that depot maintenance plays as a critical component of 
overall force readiness and logistics transformation. The OIBEC fulfills the oversight and management 
function necessary to improve the manner and method for whi ch the Army OIB operations are executed.  
h.  The Army OIBCB will ensure that the Army OIB enterprise complies with all DoD and Army policies, 
regulations, and guidance, to include the following specific statutory provisions:  
(1)  10 USC 2460:   The ter m does not include the procurement of modifications or upgrades of weap-
ons systems that are designed to improve program performance. An upgrade covered by this exception 
could continue to be performed by private or public sector activities (see para 5–1c). 
(2)  10 USC 2466:   As written in 10 USC 2466, not more than 50 percent of the depot maintenance 
workload will be contracted for performance by non -federal employees.  
(a)  Although 10 USC  2466 requires the Army to meet an aggregate minimum in DMWD ratio of 50/50, 
ASA (ALT) requires the ARNG, USAR, AMC LCMCs, and the program executive offices with which the 
LCMCs work to meet an annual target of 52 percent organic and 48 percent cont ract. 
(b)  In the event the Army year -end projections for the current or budget year should project that the 
work performed by the Federal workforce will be 52 percent or less, the Army will provide OSD with a 
Management Action Plan outlying actions that the Army will take to meet the provisions of 10 USC 2466 
no later than 15 March.  
(3)  10 USC 2464:   According to 10 USC 2464, the Secretary of Defense ( SECDEF) must maintain 
core logistics capabilities in Government -owned, Government -operated ( GOGO) f acilities to ensure a 
ready and controlled source of technical competence and resources necessary to ensure an effective and 
timely response to a mobilization, national defense contingency situation, or other emergency require-
ment.  
(4)  10 USC Section 247 4:  In accordance with 10 USC 2474, the SECDEF must designate a Center of 
Industrial and Technical Excellence ( CITE) for each non -base realignment and closure affected DoD de-
pot-based on core capabilities and provide appropriate reports to Congress. Th is statue also authorizes 
the head of the CITE to enter into public -private partnerships for work related to the CITE designation and 
consistent with the needs of the department to maximize the utilization of the CITE capacity, reduce the 
cost of produc ts, and foster cooperation between the armed forces and private industry.  