
14–1.  Maintenance Award Program  
a.  Purpose.   The Chief of Staff, Army Award for Maintenance Excellence ( AAME) Program is con-
ducted each year to recognize Army units and/or acti vities that have demonstrated excellence in mainte-
nance operations.  
b.  Objective.   The objectives of the AAME Program are to — 
(1)  Improve and sustain field maintenance readiness.  
(2)  Assess the maintenance component of unit readiness.  
(3)  Improve effi ciency and reduce waste.  
(4)  Recognize outstanding maintenance accomplishments and initiatives.  
(5)  Ensure the best units compete.  
(6)  Promote competition at ACOM, ASCC, DRU, HQDA, and DoD levels.  
c.  Responsibilities.  
(1)  The Chief of Staff, Army has delegated the awards ceremony down to Senior Commander. The 
Senior Commander will present the AAME plaques to the winners for their superior maintenance opera-
tions. Any changes will be published at https://goordnance.army.mil/aame/aame.html . 
(2)  The DCS, G  –  4 will — 
(a)  Provide program funding guidance, policy, and overall supervision of the program.  
(b)  Determine the most appropriate means of award presentation and coordinate the annual award 
ceremony.  
(c)  Establish guidance for the AAME field - and depot -level competitions.  
(d)  Conduct the Army board that selects 6 nominees to the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) Mainte-
nance Awards Program.  
(3)  The Commander, U.S. Army Ordnance School ( USAOS) will — 
(a)  Serve as responsible official for administration of the AAME Program.  
(b)  Assist the DCS, G  –  4 in the development and coordination of updates and modifications to policy 
and administrative instructions.  
(c)  Develop, revise, and maintain security of assessment protocols used to select semifinalists, run-
ners-ups, and winners.  
(d)  Convene the HQDA assessment board and conduct onsite evaluation team visits.  
(e)  Assist the DCS, G  –  4 in determining the most appropriate means of award presentation and coordi-
nating the annual award ceremony.  
 
(f)  Assist the DCS, G  –  4 with the development and preparation of the nomination packet instructions for 
the AAME field - and depot -level competitions.  
(g)  Publish the full instructions and guidance for nomination packets on the USAOS website, that is 
available at https://goordnance.army.mil/aame/aame.html . 
(h)  Assist the Army board that selects 6 nominees to the SECDEF Maintenance Awards Program.  
(i)  Host an annual after -action review with DCS, G  –  4; ACOM; ASCC; and DRU representatives.  
(4)  ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commanders will — 
(a)  Promote competition at all levels of command and develop awards to recognize units and/or activi-
ties participating in all levels of the competition process.  
(b)  Validate, select, and endorse nomination packets s ubmitted by subordinate organizations in ac-
cordance with published guidelines and forward to USAOS.  
(c)  Work with and mentor units to improve their competitiveness. Provide board members and onsite 
evaluation team members to support the assessment proces s as required by the USAOS.  
(d)  Commanders (or equivalent) will conduct their programs within the guidelines established in this 
paragraph and in the official USAOS website ( https://goordnance.army.mil/aame/aame.html ). 
d.  Categories of competition and evaluating procedures.   Categories of competition and unit nominat-
ing and evaluation procedures can be found in DA Pam 750  –  1. 
e.  Secretary of Def ense Maintenance Award Program.  
(1)  The SECDEF Maintenance Award Program annually recognizes the top six field maintenance units 
and one organic depot across all military Services. The SECDEF  Maintenance awards are presented to 
the two top units in each of the three field categories and one organic depot in the depot category. The 
SECDEF Phoenix trophy is awarded to the best of the six field -level units. The Robert T. Mason Award for 
Maintena nce Excellence trophy is awarded to the best organic depot  
(2)  The AAME Program and AMC depot competition is used as the gateway to determine the SECDEF 
Maintenance Award Program submissions for the Army. Army units and AMC depots must compete and 
be selected winners and/or runners -up in the AAME Program to be nominated for the SECDEF Mainte-
nance Award Program. DCS, G  –  4 will hold a selection board and nominate two field -level AAME winners 
and/or runners -up in each of the three categories as follo ws: 
(a)  Small: 10 to 100 authorized personnel.  
(b)  Medium: 101 to 300 authorized personnel.  
(c)  Large: 301 or more authorized personnel.  
(3)  AMC will select the depot -level AAME winner for the SECDEF Maintenance Award Program. The 
DCS, G  –  4 will r eview the competitor to ensure that the submission meets the competition criteria prior to 
submission.  