
14–2.  Army Oil Analysis Program  
a.  The objectives of the AOAP are to improve OR of Army equipment, enhance safety, detect impend-
ing component failures, and conserve petroleum resources through application of the on condition oil 
change ( OCOC) policy. AOAP  monitors lubricants for the presence of contaminants, abrasive part wear, 
and review of prescribed physical properties and consolidates analytical data in support of diagnostic 
and/or prognostic maintenance processes.  
b.  Program policies.  
(1)  The AOAP PM manages the Army’s oil analysis program. Enrollment in the AOAP is mandatory for 
all Army aircraft, combat vehicles, watercraft, and locomotives unless the DCS, G  –  4 approves the excep-
tion. Selected non -aeronautical equipment may be enrolled in the AOAP on a case -by-case basis when 
resources are available. For a list of equipment and components enrolled in the AOAP, see TB 43  –  0211 
or the Army Enterprise Portal https://enterprise.armyerp.army.mil . 
(2)  AOAP daily operations and capabilities will be executed between the laboratory and the customer 
unit. 
(3)  Field maintenance units must promote and use OCOC as recommended by the AOAP to the high-
est exte nt possible. If OCOC is not followed, reasons for not doing so must be provided to the ACOM, 
ASCC, and DRU for approval and subsequently coordinated with the AOAP Program Management Of-
fice. OCOC eliminates unnecessary changing of component oil based on a schedule of hard -time inter-
vals, as currently specified by lubrication order ( LO). The OCOC policy does not replace or modify proce-
dures for equipment under manufacturer's warranty.  
c.  ACOMs will — 
 
(1)  Ensure subordinate commands participate in the AOAP.  
(2)  Coordinate all requirements for lubrication analytical devices and/or instrument procurements with 
ASC PM AOAP.  
(3)  Ensure resources are available for the winterization of equipment being trans ferred to geographic 
regions where temperatures from -25 Fahrenheit to -60 Fahrenheit are likely.  
(4)  Ensure each organization owning enrolled equipment appoints an AOAP monitor who will ensure 
that subordinate units — 
(a)  Implement AOAP procedures with in the command.  
(b)  Ensure AOAP monitors are trained by the supporting AOAP laboratory staff or through a training 
program approved by the PM AOAP.  
(c)  Ensure AOAP enrolled equipment and component oil samples are submitted to the regional oil 
analys is laboratory.  
(d)  Ensure personnel are properly trained in AOAP procedures.  
(e)  Ensure subordinate units record a laboratory -identified deficiency in equipment maintenance rec-
ords. Units will notify the laboratory, on DA Form 3254  –  R (Oil Analysis Re commendation and Feedback), 
within 5 days of maintenance action taken.  
(f)  Ensure units incorporate AOAP processes in local SOPs.  
(5)  Incorporate QA provisions and technician qualification required by the AOAP PWSs  in the state-
ment of work used in solicitation documents for contract operation of AOAP laboratories. Contracting of-
ficers reviewing vendor proposals for AOAP laboratory operation will be required to obtain PM AOAP 
technical review and approval prior t o acceptance of the proposal.  
(6)  Sustain the mobile AOAP laboratories upon arrival in the ASCC area of operation based on DCS, 
G  –  3/5/7 approval of deployment.  
d.  For AOAP procedures see DA Pam 750  –  8 and DA Pam 738  –  751. Laboratory products an d services 
are identified in TB 43  –  0211.  