
5–14.  Mobilization planning  
a.  Requirements identified specifically for mobilization,  surge, or reconstitution purposes will be sepa-
rately identified to prevent mixing of mobilization requirements with normal maintenance requirements.  
b.  Maintenance mobilization workload requirements include cyclic, normal overhaul, rebuild, battle, 
crash  damage overhaul, rebuild, activation of items taken from long -term storage, modifications, fabrica-
tion and/or manufacture, reclamation and/or disassembly, and maintenance assistance (support for de-
ployed and deploying units).  
c.  A sustainment maintenance  mobilization plan will be developed and include major and secondary 
items, ARNG and USAR requirements, inter -Service and interdepartmental orders, and essential con-
tracts.  
d.  Sustainment maintenance mobilization secondary items requirements will be forecast in accordance 
with the mobilization schedule.  
e.  The principal for the agent’s commitment at the time of the initial depot maintenance ISSA will pro-
ject inter -Service main tenance mobilization requirements. Negotiated depot maintenance ISSAs will re-
main in effect after the date of mobilization.  
f.  Mobilization requirements to support allies will consist of continuation of agreements in effect on date 
of mobilization. Unles s more specific information is available for a program, depot maintenance workloads 
 
generated through international logistics for those engaged or mobilized countries will increase at the 
same rate as a comparable Army item during a period of mobilization.  
g.  Closed loop support procedures will be implemented for critical items for which production cannot 
satisfy mobilization demands (see AR 710  –  1). Closed loop support programs will be identified with the 
appropriate management interest item code.  
h.  Repair and/or overhaul MELs will be relaxed or eliminated.  
i.  Plans will be reviewed at least every 2 years in conjunction with the core computation process.  
j.  Depot maintenance mobilization plans will include the following:  
(1)  Depot maintenance mobilization requirements for materiel that is not the responsibility of AMC but 
is accomplished in CONUS sustainment.  
(2)  Requirements in terms of man -hours, skills, and support equipment required by deploying and de-
ployed units. AMC  will coordinate with FORSCOM in identifying these requirements.  
(3)  Requirements in terms of man -hours, skills, and support equipment required for reconstitution of 
equipment based on increased operational tempo, equipment availability data, and defense  guidance.  
(4)  A depot maintenance mobilization workload ( DMMW) distribution plan developed using mathemati-
cal modeling techniques. The techniques used should provide for a gradual post mobilization buildup from 
peacetime to full capacity within 6 months  after mobilization. This technique will incorporate the require-
ments to reconstitute force structure capabilities at the end of conflicts based on timeframes identified in 
the defense guidance.  
(5)  To identify DMMWs in excess of capacity (see AR 700  –  90), DMMW will be initially assessed 
against core capability and capacity (see AR 700  –  90). If DMMW is less than core capability, core will be 
reassessed using approved methodology. DMMW in excess of organic capacity and beyond the capabil-
ity of all d epots will be assigned to an alternate source.  