
2–17.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command  
The CG, TRADOC will — 
a.  Develop Army maintenance concepts and doctrine for two -level maintenance: field and sustainment.  
b.  Determine automated systems for support of the Army maintenance system.  
c.  Evaluate fielded systems to update maintenance training for field and sustainment maintenance op-
erations.  
d.  Ensure that existing and newly  identified maintenance tasks are in the MAC and compatible with 
training and doctrine.  
e.  Ensure that doctrinal, training, and leader development keeps pace with approved maintenance 
management programs and terminology.  
f.  Develop training materials to  provide the training required for supporting maintenance military occu-
pational specialties.  
g.  Ensure BDAR techniques are included in all resident maintenance training courses and doctrinal 
literature.  
h.  Ensure operator - and leader -level PMCS instruc tion is included in all resident training courses.  
i.  Develop and incorporate AOAP training for appropriate programs of instruction (see para 14  –  2). 
j.  Develop and update concepts and doctrine for employing dep ot-level repair ( DLR) organizations in a 
theater of operations.  
k.  Integrate CPC in all resident maintenance training courses and doctrinal literature.  
l.  Support SDC projects by providing proponent agency contractor personnel reasonable access to 
equipment and data relevant to the project.  
m.  Develop operational requirements and concepts of operations leading to a strategy for modifying 
existing and future tactical logistics IT systems to accommodate IUID implementation.  
n.  Identify hardware requirements needed to enable IUID in support of tactical logistics operations.  
o.  Include IUID in all Joint Capabilities and Integration Development System documents.  
p.  Coordinate with AMC to integrate CBM/ PPMx capability requirements into requirements documents, 
including architecture products t hat enable CBM/ PPMx operations to include embedded training and TM 
requirements.  
q.  Update training plans to support operator, crew and maintainer skills and knowledge supporting 
CBM/ PPMx driven maintenance at the field and sustainment levels.  
r.  Develop and incorporate CBM/ PPMx programs of Instruction to train Soldiers and leaders on 
CBM/ PPMx operations and procedures.  
s.  Participate in planning for Logistics Demonstrations and maintenance TM verifications.  
t.  Review/concur with acquisition LCSPs.  