
2–8.  Deputy Chief of Staff, G  –  4 
The DCS, G  –  4 is responsible for developing and implementing procedures for Army maintenance opera-
tions and will — 
a.  Perform general staff supervision of maintenance activities, including regular Army and rese rve 
components ( RCs).  
b.  Serve as the proponent for the Department of Defense ( DoD) inter -Service, interdepartmental, and 
interagency maintenance support programs, and associated area support designations within the Army.  
c.  Verify maintenance requirements for the program objective memorandum ( POM).  
d.  Ensure the materiel readiness and sustainability of the Army.  
e.  Formulate concepts, plans, and program guidance for the following materiel maintenance programs 
and projects:  
(1)  Maintenance expenditure limits ( MELs) (see para 4  –  7). 
(2)  Maintenance award programs (see para 14  –  1). 
(3)  Special repair authority ( SRA) (see para 3 –14b).  
(4)  Sample da ta collection ( SDC).  
(5)  Maintenance regeneration enablers (see para 14  –  6). 
(6)  NMP (see para 14  –  13). 
(7)  MAIT/ COMET Program (see para 14  –  14). 
(8)  Hardness maintenance and hardness surveillance ( HM/HS) (see para 14  –  22). 
(9)  Test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment ( TMDE) in accordance with AR 750  –  43. 
(10)  Support CPC  program compliance as identified in AR 750  –  59 to extend the usage of Army 
weapon systems.  
(11)  Advanced and additive manufacturing for tactical and operational applications (see para 18  –  1). 
f.  Serve as the p roponent for the functional requirements for maintenance management of Global 
Combat Support System –Army ( GCSS –Army) to include Logistics Modernization Program ( LMP), Aircraft 
Notebook ( ACN), Unit Level Logistics System –Aviation Enhanced, Accountable Pr operty System of Rec-
ord (APSR) or any other maintenance automated information systems ( AISs) used to support Army 
maintenance programs.  
g.  Provide final approval for funding of inter -service support agreements ( ISSAs) that exceed pro-
grammed support (se e para 4  –  26). 
h.  Represent the DA Tire Retread Program involving policy and planning concerning DoD or the De-
partments of the Navy and Air Force.  
i.  Develop basic functional guidance for the automated submission of depot maintenance require-
ments.  
j.  Direct and allocate funds to support all sustainment maintenance programs, including maintenance 
engineering, maintenance support services, and depot maintenance.  
k.  Conduct annual sustainment maintenance requirement reviews with representation from the follow-
ing organizations when developing the POM:  
 
(1)  AMC.  
(2)  AMC LCMC.  
(3)  U.S. Army Sustainment Command ( ASC).  
(4)  ASA (ALT) program executive officers ( PEOs).  
(5)  PMs.  
(6)  DCS, G  –  3/5/7.  
(7)  ASA ( FM&C).  
(8)  Army Budget Office.  
(9)  Program Analysis and Evaluation.  
(10)  Other Headquarters, Department of the Army ( HQDA), ACOM, ASCC, DRU headquarters staff as 
required.  
l.  Verify and monitor execution of the Sustainment Maintenance Requirements Plan ( OP  –  29). 
m.  Direct the Army Materiel Maintenance Management Career Program.  
n.  Exercise staff supervision for management of the Army sets, kits, outfits, and tools ( SKOT)  
o.  Serve as proponent for the Army Modification Program in accordance with AR 750  –  10. 
p.  Establish and maintain a long -term Army Organic Industrial Base ( OIB) Strategic Plan for the Army 
OIBCB approval.  
q.  Co-chair the Army OIBCB (see para 5  –  2). 
r.  Co-chair the OIBEC with AMC (see para 5  –  3). 
s.  Serve as the proponent for the Army Oil Analysis Program ( AOAP) and approve Army input to the 
DoD Joint Oil Analysis Program (see para 14  –  2). 
t.  Validate ACOM, ASCC, and DRU RCF requirements annually as part of the AAO validation process.  
u.  Coordinate with ASA (ALT), DCS, G  –  3/5/7, and DCS, G  –  8 to validate RCF requirements and re-
quests to redistribute or divest excess.  
v.  Plan and program resources to support the DCS, G  –  3/5/7 maintenance burden data requirements 
and associated logistical data elements needed to determine maintenance force structure requirem ents.  
w.  Provide maintenance policy oversight to the following:  
(1)  Execution of equipment reset.  
(2)  Left behind equipment ( LBE) storage.  
(3)  Predeployment training equipment ( PDTE).  
(4)  Home station training ( HST) equipment.  
(5)  Coordinate with the Office of the Secretary of Defense ( OSD) and other Military Departments and 
Services to develop common maintenance management and logistics terminology for use in Army mainte-
nance management documents.  
x.  Approve source repair analysis and core logis tics analysis.  
y.  Maintain an accounting of the maintenance contractor logistics support ( CLS) engaged by the Army 
and the manpower and/or equipment resources required to replace it —if discontinued or exempt.  
z.  Approve weapon system and component enrol lment into the AOAP through coordination with 
LCMCs, PEOs, and/or PMs, as well as the ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs.  
aa.  Serve as the Army Staff ( ARSTAF) proponent for NS  –  E maintenance.  
bb.  Provide oversight for maintenance of the Material Enterprise Nonstandard Equipment Database.  
cc.  Monitor the repair and reset of tactical NS  –  E. 
dd.  In coordination with ASA (ALT), coordinate the development of APC sustainment strategies and 
sustainment strategies for NS  –  E identified for long -term storage.  
ee.  Serve as lead agent to assist in the establishment, development and to update CBM/ PPMx policy 
and provide implementing guidance to support CBM/ PPMx operations at the field and sustainment levels.  