
13–4.  Planning, programming, and budgeting  for systems technical support and sustainment 
systems technical support  
a.  During the development and production phases of the weapon system life cycle, STS will be 
planned, programmed, and budgeted for by the PM of the weapon system. STS will be funded with pro-
curement dollars.  
b.  Commencing with the first full FY after production ends, STS will transition, with funding, to SSTS 
and will be planned, pr ogrammed, and budgeted for by the supporting AMC MSC. SSTS will be funded 
with OMA dollars. STS funding will transition from procurement to OMA concurrent with the transition of 
programming responsibility from the PM and/or PEO to AMC. The PM, as  the total life cycle systems 
manager and in collaboration with the AMC, is responsible for presenting all sustainment cost estimates 
for their systems and providing to DCS, G  –  4 (Maintenance Directorate) for inclusion in the sustainment 
program evaluat ion group as part of the POM submission.  
c.  For those weapon systems currently managed by PEOs and/or PMs that are forecasted to go out of 
production during the POM years, the PEOs and/or PMs will develop weapon system schedules in coordi-
nation with  the gaining AMC MSC. PMs will develop a process to track and monitor STS costs prior to the 
system transitioning from production to operations and support so that data can be used as baseline in-
formation for SSTS projected requirements during the val idation process. For programs being terminated, 
program termination plans will include all total life cycle considerations with commensurate resourcing re-
quirements for areas, such as SSTS, PPSS, and all depot maintenance.  
d.  SSTS requirements will be developed by weapon system and function ( LARs) and/or type of pro-
gram. The AMC MSCs will validate and certify all SSTS requirements and cost estimates, whether 
 
contractual or organic, prior to submission. Annual HQDA onsite reviews are conducted with MSCs to as-
sist in the validation process. Supporting documentation used in support of the MSC SSTS requirements 
validation will be retained for HQDA review. Sup porting documentation will show how the work was quan-
tified in terms of both workload (such as hours, quantities, and tasks) and associated costs. Examples of 
supporting documentation include workload and cost projections derived from estimating tools such  as 
engineering estimates, models, and simulations. The MSC commander will certify in writing the SSTS re-
quirements for submission to AMC. AMC will compile the MSC data for submission to HQDA in support of 
the POM each year, and the Commander, AMC or a designated representative will certify in writing the 
SSTS POM submission. The documentation will include an accounting of the execution of SSTS dollars 
by spending category against those dollars originally budgeted.  
e.  The latest DCS, G  –  3/5/7 prioritization guidance for sustainment of fielded equipment will be used, 
and a priority will be assigned based on the criteria established in the guidance. Funds will be applied in 
priority order. AMC will provide justification for any deviation. A copy  of the latest prioritization guidance 
may be obtained from DCS, G  –  3/5/7 (DALO  –  SMM), 500 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  –  0500.  