
3–14.  Delegation of authority to field commands to perform depot maintenance  
a.  General.   Depot maintenance tasks will not be performed by ACOMs, ARNG, USAR, ASCCs, and 
DRUs  unless the authority to do so has been officially delegated by the Commander, AMC. This authority 
is meant to support near -term readiness when the supply posture for a given item is in a weak position. 
These tasks are marked with the MRC D or L in the a pplicable TM MAC. Depot maintenance work in the 
Army will be tightly controlled to ensure component quality, safety of equipment operation, and to comply 
with U.S. law. There are two methods of delegations to perform depot maintenance: SRA and OTR.  
b.  Special repair authority (Project Code 065).   SRA (Project Code 065) is an authorization by AMC to 
provide a maintenance organization with authority to perform maintenance to the national standard on an 
item of equipment for a period not to exceed 1 yea r. The following policy applies to SRA:  
(1)  Work performed under an SRA will be directly funded with customer operation and maintenance 
(O&M) appropriation funds.  
(2)  SRA approval will be based on the overall stock position of an asset. SRAs will no t be approved 
when like serviceable assets are available and/or where assets exist to meet readiness and/or mission 
needs within required timelines. Army policy is not to repair more than national requirements.  
(3)  Only maintenance organizations that have  the technical skills, tools, test equipment, necessary fa-
cilities, QA (inspection), and testing capability to perform DLRs will be approved. These qualifications 
must be confirmed by the appropriate LCMC in accordance with their published internal oper ating proce-
dures and the NMP Business Process Manual ( BPM).  
(4)  SRAs will not be approved for items that are on the NMP current and subsequent FY workload 
plan.  
(5)  An SRA will not be required for those SORs  that have been technically certified to perform DLRs in 
accordance with the applicable national standard in support of the NMP (Army working capital fund 
(AWCF)).  
(6)  SRA renewals are allowed when a requirement still exists for the basic SRA approve d workload for 
1 year. If required, the initiator will begin the renewal process 90 days before the expiration of the original 
SRA.  
(7)  The NMP solution in LMP will be used to apply for SRA authorizations. Instructions for accessing 
and using this sol ution are contained in the NMP BPM. The NMP solution in LMP provides an automated 
process to manage the creation, workflow, reporting, review, and approval process for SRA’s.  
 
(8)  Commander, AMC may delegate approval or disapproval authority to the LCMCs. This delegation 
of authority is addressed in AMC’s NMP BPM.  
(9)  The total processing time for each SRA request will not exceed 60 calendar -days. If the repair of an 
item involves a CSI, then the LCMC processing time will be extended to 60 day s, and the total processing 
time will be extended to 120 days.  
(10)  If a requesting organization does not agree with the LCMCs disapproval of an SRA request, they 
may request the SRA disapproval be reviewed by DCS, G  –  4 by using the rebuttal process as defined in 
the NMP BPM.  
c.  One-time repair (Project Code 064).   OTR (Project Code 064) is an authorization by AMC to provide 
a maintenance organization with a one -time authorization to perform maintenance to the nati onal mainte-
nance standard on an item of equipment when it is in the Army’s operational and/or readiness interest or 
critical to mission accomplishment. The following policy applies to OTRs:  
(1)  Work performed under an OTR will be directly funded with cu stomer O&M appropriation funds.  
(2)  OTR approval will be based on the overall stock position of an asset. OTRs will not be approved 
when like serviceable assets are available and/or where assets exist to meet readiness and/or mission 
needs within requi red timelines. Army policy is not to repair more than national requirements.  
(3)  The approval authority for an OTR is the respective AMC LCMC. Each LCMC will approve and/or 
disapprove OTRs in accordance with their published internal operation procedu res. 
(4)  OTRs will not be approved for items that are on the NMP current fiscal year ( CFY) workload pro-
gram unless a critical mission readiness need cannot be satisfied by the supply system within the re-
quired timeline.  
(5)  Only maintenance organizati ons that have the technical skills, tools, test equipment, necessary fa-
cilities QA (inspection), and testing capability to perform DLRs will be approved. These qualifications must 
be confirmed by LCMC in accordance with their internal operating procedur es. 
d.  Organizational functions.  
(1)  AMC LCMC will be responsible to monitor/validate maintenance operations performed under the 
SRA and/or OTR  to assure the quality, safety, and technical standards are met. LCMCs will, upon review, 
determine if the number of repairs under a specific SRA warrants that item to be added to the NMP work-
load. LCMCs will also determine if the frequency of an OTR warrants issuance of an SRA.  
(2)  The maintenance activity doing repairs under SRA and/or OTR authorization is responsible to 
maintain work order data specifics; see DA Pam 750  –  1. 
e.  Special repair authority and/or one -time repair reporting requirem ents.  
(1)  AMC (National Maintenance Division) will develop quarterly reports to the DCS, G  –  4 (Sustainment 
Maintenance Division) using the data elements (report control symbol ( RCS) exempt: AR 25  –  98). 
(2)  ACOMs, ASCCs, DRUs, and/or ARNG having  activities performing work under an SRA or OTR will 
develop a monthly report to the respective LCMC in spreadsheet format using the below data elements 
(RCS exempt: AR 25  –  98). Monthly reports will be in accordance with DA Pam 750  –  1. 
f.  Monthly Reporting.   LCMCs will review each monthly report for accuracy and completeness, and 
then provide a consolidated report no later than the 15th of each month to Commander, AMC, 4400 Mar-
tin Road, Redstone Arsenal, AL 35898  –  5035 ( RCS exempt: AR 25  –  98). 
g.  Rules.   The Commander, AMC will establish the internal business rules and/or procedures neces-
sary to implement the SRA and/or OTR process within AMC.  
h.  Quarterly Reporting.   The ACOM, ASCC, DRU, or other command performing work under  an SRA 
and/or OTR will submit a quarterly report in accordance with DA Pam 750  –  1. 