
6–3.  Functional responsibilities, program objectives, and maintenance support concept  
a.  The functional responsibilities of the Army aviation maintenance activities are to — 
(1)  Provide safe, reliable, and FMC aircraft to the user.  
(2)  Sustain materiel in an operational status and/or restore equipment to an FMC condition.  
(3)  Enhance or upgrade aircraft functional usefulness through MWO, materiel change, and product im-
provement.  
b.  The program objective of Army aviation maintenance  is to provide robust modular maintenance and 
logistics support to aviation weapon systems end item users. This includes, but is not limited to, repair of 
airframes, engines, aircraft subsystems, avionics, communications, navigation, aircraft survivability  equip-
ment, aerial weapon systems, fire control and/or fire direction items, and other airborne mission equip-
ment packages necessary to support the total aviation weapon system life cycle support.  
c.  The maintenance support concept to accomplish these obj ectives, will transition from its current 
three levels of aviation maintenance to the Army maintenance system consisting of field and sustainment 
maintenance levels. The Aviation Logistics Transformation Plan will restructure aviation maintenance or-
ganizat ions from the current three levels of maintenance, which employs redundant echelons of pass -
back aviation maintenance, to tailored, robust, and mobile aviation maintenance units. This modular 
maintenance concept allocates personnel, tools, and equipment re sources where they are most effective. 
This change will result in a robust aviation maintenance operation. The goal is to eliminate redundancy 
where possible while retaining core capabilities. These long -term efforts will culminate in significant reduc-
tions to the aviation logistics tail.  
d.  Designation and utilization of the former aviation unit maintenance ( AVUM) and/or aviation interme-
diate maintenance ( AVIM) is no longer applicable under the Army maintenance system. Commands will 
not use AVUM and AVIM designations in maintenance determination and execution. Any published refer-
ence to either term will be disregarded, and the required level of maintenance will be considered field 
maintenance. Specific tasks will be accomplished based on MTOE SKOTs assigned to the command and 
 
qualified personnel available to perform the required tasks. The combat aviation brigade commander has 
the authority to locate and assign all FLM capabilities in support of the combat aviation brigade’s mission.  