
10–1.  Maintenance policy  
a.  The organization clothing and individual equipment issued to Soldiers will be inspected to determine 
serviceability in accord ance with AR 700  –  84 and DA Pam 710  –  2  –  1. The individual to whom the organiza-
tion clothing or equipment is assigned must perform maintenance that would reasonably be expected to 
be performed within a unit, such as: cleaning, spot removal, repair of t ears or rips, and replacement of 
buttons. Field maintenance and repair procedures for organization clothing and individual equipment are 
in TM  –  10  –  8400  –  203  –  23. 
b.  Each installation or activity will ensure clothing and materiel beyond organizationa l repair capability 
is turned in to a central location for either repair or return to stock or classification as unserviceable and 
turned in to DLA  –  DS. 
c.  The U.S. property and fiscal officer may authorize negotiation of local contracts for maintaining  
clothing and equipment for the ARNG as follows:  
(1)  Minor alterations and repairs of individual clothing.  
(2)  Minor repairs of U.S. property and fiscal officer stocks to reclassify items to a serviceable status for 
reissue.  
d.  Major alterations for the purpose of modifying items will require prior approval of CNGB.  
e.  Laundry and dry -cleaning services are authorized as follows:  
(1)  Laundry services in support of AT in accordance with NG Pam 350  –  1. 
(2)  Laundry and dry -cleaning services in support of IDT should be obtained at the lowest possible cost 
for the following items:  
(a)  White organizational clothing and equipment issued to medical and food service personnel.  
(b)  Sheets, pillowcases, and mattress covers.  
(c)  U.S. property and fiscal officer stocks of serviceable individual and organizational clothing and 
equipment prior to reissue.  
(d)  Individual clothing for interment of deceased personnel when Federal funds are authorized.  
(e)  Blankets and sleeping bags.  
(f)  Army band distinctive uniforms as authorized by common table of allowances ( CTA) 50  –  900. 