
5–4.  Reporting depot -level workload distribution and execution  
a.  Not more than 50 percent of the funds made available in an FY to a military department or defense 
agency for depot -level maintenance and repair workload may be used to contract for the performance by 
non-Federa l Government personnel, per the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 
(NDAA FY 98). Any such funds that are not used for such a contract will be used for the performance of 
depot -level maintenance and repair workload by employees of the DoD. The percentage limitation in-
cludes depot maintenance ICS, CLS, and similar contracts as required by the National Defense Authori-
zation Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (NDAA FY 98).  
b.  All Army ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs will report the funding executed to accomplish depot -level 
tasks designated or coded as D or L, regardl ess of source of funds or the location where the maintenance 
is performed. Two types of reports will be submitted to capture this data:  
(1)  Annual report.   Per 10 USC 2466(d)(1), DoD is required to develop a report to Congress 90 days 
after submitting the President’s Budget to Congress each FY for each of the Armed Forces (other than 
the Coast Guard) and each Defense Agency. The report must show the percentage of funds that were 
obligated or planned for obligation during the prior FY, CFY, and budget year for the performance of de-
pot maintenance and repair workload by the public and private sectors. The DCS, G  –  4 (Sustainment 
Maintenance Division) will prepare and issue a data cal l with supplemental instructions for the completion 
of the annual 50/50 report no later than 15 December.  
(2)  Quarterly report.   ACOMs and other reporting activities are required to submit a DMWD quarterly 
report to the DCS, G  –  4 (DALO  –  MPS) on or ab out the first working day of May, August, and November. 
Similar to the annual report, the AMC DMWD quarterly report will be a compilation of LCMC reports with 
each LCMC report prepared at the LCMC level and representing the consolidated data between t he AMC 
LCMCs and the program executive offices they primarily support, as well as all NMP, SRA, and/or OTR 
workloads. The Joint program executive office for chemical biological defense, the program executive of-
fice for Enterprise Information Systems, and the program executive office for Army Simulation, Training 
and Instrumentation will report directly to DCS, G  –  4. 
c.  Amounts obligated for the performance of depot -level maintenance and repair workload by non -Fed-
eral Government personnel at a CITE under any contract will not count for purpose of applying the per-
centage limitations to 10 USC 2466(a) if the personnel are  provided by private industry or other entities 
outside the DoD pursuant to a public and/or private partnership.  
d.  Depot maintenance carryover is that portion of the maintenance program that is not completed dur-
ing the year of obligation and, therefore,  carried into the subsequent FY for completion.  
e.  Carryover is inherent in any production or manufacturing process and is required to provide produc-
tion stability and continuity during the transition between FYs. The industrial base facilities will com muni-
cate with their customers early to verify the statement of work and ensure that they have the required ca-
pability and capacity, to include skillsets, equipment, and parts, to meet delivery schedules and avoid ex-
cessive carryover. All unplanned orders r eceived by AMC’s OIB enterprise will undergo a detailed analy-
sis before accepting the work to improve the management of work carried over from the CFY to the next 
FY. AMC will execute a structured approval process for all unplanned work, including par ameters defining 
delegation authority.  
 
f.  AMC will establish internal controls to ensure LCMCs and OIB activities comply with guidance in 
DoD Financial Management Regulation ( FMR) 7000  –  14, Volume 11A, Chapter 3 , to avoid excessive car-
ryover. This guidance includes:  
(1)  Orders accepted should be specific, definite, and certain as to the work and terms of the order.  
(2)  Certification that the funds cited on the order are properly chargeable for the purposes cited in the 
order.  
(3)  Project orders must serve as a bona fide need in the FY for which the project order is issued and 
determined that the order is not reasonably severable between FYs. Multiple year appropriations may be 
obligated for requi rements that constitute bona fide needs of the multiple -year period of availability for the 
appropriation.  
(4)  Work must be expected to begin within a reasonable time after acceptance (usually within 90 days) 
and completed within the normal production per iod for specific work orders. If the funded order cites an 
appropriation that expired for obligation on September 30th and the work does not begin, or is not ex-
pected to begin before January 1 of the following calendar year, then the project order funds mu st be re-
turned to the customer. If the performing activity commander documents that the delay is unavoidable 
and could not have been foreseen at the time of project order acceptance, and that documentation is re-
tained for audit review, then the project ord er can be retained and executed.  
(5)  Project orders must not be issued for the primary or secondary purpose of continuing the availabil-
ity of appropriations.  
g.  AMC will direct the LCMCs and the OIB activities to establish processes and procedures, to  include 
specific managerial approval processes, for analyzing and accepting new orders. These processes and 
procedures should increase the probability of successful execution with the goals of improving production 
efficiency and reducing carryover. At a m inimum, the processes and procedures must meet the following 
criteria:  
(1)  Skilled labor is available, to include adequate labor hours available with the required skills, to exe-
cute the overhaul of the programs.  
(2)  Parts, to include sufficient stock, ar e on hand or on order to complete the program schedule on 
time given the required depot overhaul factor and scrap rates.  
(3)  Tools and equipment are on hand or on order, to include all required special tools, fixtures, jig, and 
stands.  
(4)  Documented int ernal processes, to include approved technical data and capacity, are available to 
complete the work.  
(5)  Requirements are understood, to include the required depot production, impact of backorders, av-
erage monthly demand, potential surge requirements, an d alternate SOR.  
(6)  Funding is available to adequately support the production.  