
13–1.  General  
a.  Total ownership cost reduction is an Army objective throughout the  life cycle of the weapon system. 
The Chief of Staff, Army and the Army Acquisition Executive identified the reduction of operating and sup-
port costs as a high priority and vital to realizing modernization efforts. The system’s total ownership cost 
include s costs associated with acquiring, operating, modifying, maintaining, supplying, and disposing of 
 
weapon and/or materiel systems. Reducing total ownership cost is instrumental, not only to reducing fis-
cal demands on the operational commander, but also to g enerating savings that can be reinvested in sup-
port of Army modernization objectives.  
b.  Establishing and sustaining comprehensive maintenance support throughout the entire life cycle is 
required to assure that materiel can be maintained in its operationa l environment with minimum resources 
for achieving OR and sustainability. The engineering and technical capability required to ensure Army 
equipment is maintainable within the Army standard maintenance system is called systems technical sup-
port ( STS) for  systems that are in production and SSTS when systems are out of production. Engineering 
and technical support capabilities include the following functions:  
(1)  Conduct of logistics support analyses.  
(2)  Development and update of the maintenance concept , including the LORA, the MSP, the depot 
support plan, logistics management data, the MAC, and all equipment publications, including the depot 
maintenance work requirements.  
(3)  Establishment and sustainment of a stockpile reliability program.  
(4)  Management of the Army’s SDC projects.  
(5)  Providing LARs for major weapon systems and/or commodities of equipment.  
(6)  Processing EIRs and QDRs.  
(7)  Engineering services/Engineering design changes for:  
(a)  Safety and capability modifications.  
(b)  Correction of systemic deficiencies.  
(c)  Re-engineering to compensate for obsolescence.  
(d)  Integration with new systems/requirements.  
(8)  Maintenance and use of technical data packages.  
(9)  TM updates/ interactive electronic techn ical manual ( IETM).  
(10)  Airworthiness certification.  
(11)  Technical/maintenance guidance/assistance to field units; maintenance help desk support.  
(12)  PPMx/ CBM/ CBM Plus ( CBM+).  
(13)  Life cycle logistic tools.  
c.  For guidance and procedures rela ting to Life Cycle Management support see AR 700  –  127 and DA 
Pam 750  –  1. 