
2–1.  Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics and Technology)  
The ASA (ALT) will — 
a.  Ensure that materiel developers ( MATDEVs ) promote interoperability in the acquisition of systems 
and equipment in accordance with AR 700  –  127. 
b.  Advocate maintenance considerations in role of chair for the Army Systems Acquisition Review 
Council ( ASARC).  
c.  Coordinate with the MATDEVs to plan sustainment -level maintenance, and ensure the sustainment 
maintenance source of repair ( SOR) analysis has been completed and documented.  
d.  Ensure that an organic sustainment core logistics assessment and core sustainment assessment is 
conducted for  all newly acquired systems and/or modifications for systems designated as core.  
e.  Co-chair the Army Organic Industrial Base Corporate Board ( OIBCB) and provide acquisition and 
logistics senior executive service ( SES) representation to the Army OIBCB (see para 5  –  2). 
f.  In coordination with the Deputy Chief of Staff ( DCS), G  –  4 establish policies and procedures to sup-
port maintenance burden data requirements for force documentation as required by the DCS, G  –  3/5/7.  
g.  Provide O  –  6 (colonel) and/or general schedule ( GS)–15 level representation to the Organic Indus-
trial Base Executive Committee ( OIBEC) (see para 5  –  3). 
h.  Appoint a Corrosion Control and Prevention Executive to manage the Army Corrosion P revention 
and Control ( CPC) Program to ensure CPC prior to fielding of all major end -items and weapon systems.  
i.  Assist U.S. Army Materiel Command ( AMC) in the sustainment of Acquisition Program Candidate 
(APC) non -standard equipment ( NS  –  E), to in clude SOR, fielding, coordinating disposition, packaging, 
storage, and disposal.  
 
j.  Establish internal procedures and controls to request and/or assign nonstandard line item numbers 
for the NS  –  E; formerly Commercial Off -the-Shelf, or ( COTS) procured to fill unit warfighting or force pro-
tection capability shortfalls (either through fielding or made available for unit purchase).  
k.  Establish the overall policy and strategic objectives for the Army Industrial Base Program.  
l.  Coordinate MATDEV repair cycle float ( RCF) requirements with DCS, G  –  4. Consolidate MATDEV 
requirements by line item number ( LIN), command, unit identification code ( UIC), and fiscal year ( FY) and 
submit to DCS, G  –  4 annually.  
m.  In support of the Prognostics Predictive Maintenance ( PPMx) Program, ASA (ALT) is responsible 
for establishment and management of the condition -based maintenance ( CBM)/ PPMx program when re-
quired by an approved Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System document, to inclu de— 
(1)  Update Systems Engineering Plan and Life Cycle Sustainment Plan ( LCSP), to include electronic 
technical manuals ( ETMs), to take full advantage of CBM and PPMx capabilities performing maintenance 
actions based on system and component conditions  versus time, mileage, and operating hours.  
(2)  Develop and procure CBM/ PPMx systems, software, hardware, and architecture on applicable 
Army systems in accordance with capability developers ( CAPDEVs) and U.S. Army Training and Doctrine 
Command ( TRADO C) for maintenance doctrine/operations in accordance with AR 700  –  127. 
(3)  Develop and procure CBM/ PPMx diagnostic tools for field and sustainment maintenance in accord-
ance with AR 700  –  127. 
(4)  Direct Army acquisition program managers ( PMs) to assess the technical feasibility, affordability, 
and estimate the return on investment of incorporating PPMx capable hardware in current and newly de-
veloped and acquired systems.  
(5)  Modernize or recapitalize equipment with CBM/ PPMx  capabilities based on paragraph 2 –1m(4) . 
(6)  Prepare a business case analysis to evaluate the expected return on investment of installing 
CBM/ PPMx capable digital equipment and sensors to currently fielded  equipment.  
(7)  Incorporate CBM/ PPMx into product support strategies.  
(8)  Conduct evaluations based on CBM/ PPMx data analysis to identify improvements and decision 
points supporting reliability improvements, overhaul, remanufacture, recapitalization,  modernization, or 
divesture of equipment.  