
3–11.  Sustainment maintenance  
a.  Sustainment maintenance is the second function of the Army maintenance system. Sustainment 
maintenance is characterized by the performance of maintenance tasks, “off system” in a secure environ-
ment using trained personnel, tools, a nd TMDE. Sustainment maintenance is typically repair and return to 
stock and depot -maintenance operations. See DA Pam 750  –  1 for more information about sustainment 
maintenance.  
b.  AMC  may grant authority to supported field maintenance units to perform the next -higher level of 
repair (for repair and return to user only) when the supported unit has the capability and capacity to per-
form the repair.  
c.  MTOE sustainment maintenance perso nnel may perform duties at TDA maintenance activities to 
maintain skills and update MOS training.  
d.  Sustainment maintenance personnel will perform TIs of class II, V, VII, VIII, and IX materiel to deter-
mine serviceability and completeness.  
e.  Sustain ment maintenance activities may provide support to FLM units for unique item support.  
f.  Depot maintenance (a distinct subset of sustainment maintenance) supports both the combat forces 
and the Army supply system. Depot maintenance will normally be perfo rmed by TDA industrial -type activi-
ties operated by the Army. Depot -level maintenance may also be performed by contract, installation sup-
port activities, and interdepartmental or interagency agreement:  
(1)  Depot -level maintenance provides combat -ready mat eriel to the Army supply system.  
(2)  Depot -level maintenance provides technical support to field maintenance units and activities. In 
overseas areas, a depot FRA may be established to support combatant commanders.  
(3)  An FRA is an AMC -resourced, direc ted, and controlled activity operated by contractor or organic 
personnel that provides sustainment -level support forward of the depot. Where possible, FRAs will pro-
vide support for multiple weapon systems or commodities.  
g.  Repair of selected economicall y reparable components will return the items to a serviceable condi-
tion. These items will be repaired and returned to the supply support activity ( SSA). Repair and return to 
supply will be accomplished only at the direction of the NMM.  
 
h.  Sustainment ma intenance activities, to include Government contractors performing maintenance on 
Army equipment, will use approved LIS. 
Section III  
Maintenance Providers  